# GKARC4RandomSource

**Framework**: GameplayKit  
**Kind**: class

A basic random number generator implementing the ARC4 algorithm, which is suitable for most gameplay mechanics.

**Availability**:
- iOS 9.0+
- iPadOS 9.0+
- Mac Catalyst 13.1+
- macOS 10.11+
- tvOS 9.0+
- visionOS 1.0+

## Declaration

```swift
class GKARC4RandomSource
```

#### Overview

> ❗ **Important**:  The randomization services provided in GameplayKit are suitable for reliably creating deterministic, pseudorandom gameplay mechanics, but are not cryptographically robust. For cryptography, obfuscation, or cipher uses, use the Security framework, described in [`Cryptographic Services Guide`](https://developer.apple.comhttps://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/Security/Conceptual/cryptoservices/Introduction/Introduction.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40011172).

To generate basic random values with this random source, use the methods defined in the [`GKRandom`](gkrandom.md) protocol. To generate random values with a specific range and distribution, use this random source with the [`GKRandomDistribution`](gkrandomdistribution.md) class or one of its subclasses.

When you create an instance of this class, the resulting random source is both  and —that is, the sequence of numbers generated by one instance has no effect on the sequence generated by any other instance, and that sequence can be replicated when necessary. For details on replicating sequences, see the [`seed`](gkarc4randomsource/seed.md) property and [`init(seed:)`](gkarc4randomsource/init(seed:).md) initializer.

> **Note**:  The [`GKARC4RandomSource`](gkarc4randomsource.md) class uses a similar agorithm to, but is independent from, the arc4random family of C functions.

For more information on choosing and using randomizers in GameplayKit, read [`Randomization`](https://developer.apple.comhttps://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/General/Conceptual/GameplayKit_Guide/RandomSources.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40015172-CH9) in [`GameplayKit Programming Guide`](https://developer.apple.comhttps://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/General/Conceptual/GameplayKit_Guide/index.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40015172).

## Topics

### Creating a Random Source
- [convenience init()](gkarc4randomsource/init.md)
  Initializes a random source from a nondeterministic seed.
- [init(seed: Data)](gkarc4randomsource/init(seed:).md)
  Initializes a random source with the specified seed data.
### Replicating Random Behavior
- [var seed: Data](gkarc4randomsource/seed.md)
  The seed data that determines the random source’s behavior.
### Avoiding Predictable Behavior
- [func dropValues(Int)](gkarc4randomsource/dropvalues(_:).md)
  Skips the specified number of values in the random sequence.

## Relationships

### Inherits From
- [GKRandomSource](gkrandomsource.md)
### Conforms To
- [CVarArg](../Swift/CVarArg.md)
- [CustomDebugStringConvertible](../Swift/CustomDebugStringConvertible.md)
- [CustomStringConvertible](../Swift/CustomStringConvertible.md)
- [Equatable](../Swift/Equatable.md)
- [GKRandom](gkrandom.md)
- [Hashable](../Swift/Hashable.md)
- [NSCoding](../Foundation/NSCoding.md)
- [NSCopying](../Foundation/NSCopying.md)
- [NSObjectProtocol](../ObjectiveC/NSObjectProtocol.md)
- [NSSecureCoding](../Foundation/NSSecureCoding.md)

## See Also

- [protocol GKRandom](gkrandom.md)
  The common interface for all randomization classes in (or usable with) GameplayKit.
- [class GKRandomSource](gkrandomsource.md)
  The superclass for all basic randomization classes in GameplayKit.
- [class GKLinearCongruentialRandomSource](gklinearcongruentialrandomsource.md)
  A basic random number generator implementing the linear congruential generator algorithm, which is faster but less random than the default random source.
- [class GKMersenneTwisterRandomSource](gkmersennetwisterrandomsource.md)
  A basic random number generator implementing the Mersenne Twister algorithm, which is more random, but slower than the default random source.
- [class GKRandomDistribution](gkrandomdistribution.md)
  A generator for random numbers that fall within a specific range and that exhibit a specific distribution over multiple samplings.
- [class GKGaussianDistribution](gkgaussiandistribution.md)
  A generator for random numbers that follow a  (also known as a ) across multiple samplings.
- [class GKShuffledDistribution](gkshuffleddistribution.md)
  A generator for random numbers that are uniformly distributed across many samplings, but where short sequences of similar values are unlikely.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/gameplaykit/gkarc4randomsource)*