# GKNoiseSource

**Framework**: GameplayKit  
**Kind**: class

The abstract superclass for procedural noise generators.

**Availability**:
- iOS 10.0+
- iPadOS 10.0+
- Mac Catalyst 13.1+
- macOS 10.12+
- tvOS 10.0+
- visionOS 1.0+

## Declaration

```swift
class GKNoiseSource
```

#### Overview

Each noise source class generalizes a specific noise generation algorithm that produces a distinct general style of noise. For example, the [`GKPerlinNoiseSource`](gkperlinnoisesource.md) class generates fractal coherent noise similar to clouds, terrain, and other natural phenomena, and the [`GKCylindersNoiseSource`](gkcylindersnoisesource.md) class generates a field of concentric cylinders useful for creating wood-grain textures.

To make use of procedural noise in your app or game:

- Select the [`GKNoiseSource`](gknoisesource.md) subclass that generates the style of noise you’d like, and configure its properties to customize the noise generation algorithm.
- Create a [`GKNoise`](gknoise.md) object from that noise source. A noise object represents a specific configuration of noise generated by the noise source. You can create multiple noise objects and apply operations that combine or modify them to further customize the style of output. Noise objects are lightweight—creating them and applying operations doesn’t perform expensive noise computation.
- Create a [`GKNoiseMap`](gknoisemap.md) object from the noise object. Creating a noise map performs the computation to generate noise and apply any operations you specified with [`GKNoise`](gknoise.md) objects, resulting in a concrete output: a field of values that you can either sample directly, use with the [`SKTexture`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/SpriteKit/SKTexture) class to generate texture images, or use with the `SKTileMap` class to generate tile maps.

## Relationships

### Inherits From
- [NSObject](../ObjectiveC/NSObject-swift.class.md)
### Inherited By
- [GKCheckerboardNoiseSource](gkcheckerboardnoisesource.md)
- [GKCoherentNoiseSource](gkcoherentnoisesource.md)
- [GKConstantNoiseSource](gkconstantnoisesource.md)
- [GKCylindersNoiseSource](gkcylindersnoisesource.md)
- [GKSpheresNoiseSource](gkspheresnoisesource.md)
- [GKVoronoiNoiseSource](gkvoronoinoisesource.md)
### Conforms To
- [CVarArg](../Swift/CVarArg.md)
- [CustomDebugStringConvertible](../Swift/CustomDebugStringConvertible.md)
- [CustomStringConvertible](../Swift/CustomStringConvertible.md)
- [Equatable](../Swift/Equatable.md)
- [Hashable](../Swift/Hashable.md)
- [NSObjectProtocol](../ObjectiveC/NSObjectProtocol.md)

## See Also

- [class GKNoise](gknoise.md)
  A representation of procedural noise, generated by a noise source, that you can use to process, transform, or combine noise.
- [class GKNoiseMap](gknoisemap.md)
  A sample of procedural noise data from which you can read noise values directly or create noise textures.
- [class GKCoherentNoiseSource](gkcoherentnoisesource.md)
  The abstract superclass for procedural noise generators that create coherent noise.
- [class GKBillowNoiseSource](gkbillownoisesource.md)
  A procedural noise generator whose output is a type of fractal coherent noise with smooth features.
- [class GKPerlinNoiseSource](gkperlinnoisesource.md)
  A procedural noise generator whose output is a type of fractal coherent noise resembling natural phenomena such as clouds and terrain.
- [class GKRidgedNoiseSource](gkridgednoisesource.md)
  A procedural noise generator whose output is a type of multifractal coherent noise with sharply defined features.
- [class GKVoronoiNoiseSource](gkvoronoinoisesource.md)
  A procedural noise generator whose output (also called Worley noise or cellular noise) divides space into discrete cells surrounding random seed points.
- [class GKCylindersNoiseSource](gkcylindersnoisesource.md)
  A procedural noise generator whose output is a 3D field of concentric cylindrical shells.
- [class GKSpheresNoiseSource](gkspheresnoisesource.md)
  A procedural noise generator whose output is a 3D field of concentric spherical shells.
- [class GKCheckerboardNoiseSource](gkcheckerboardnoisesource.md)
  A procedural noise generator whose output is an alternating square pattern.
- [class GKConstantNoiseSource](gkconstantnoisesource.md)
  A procedural noise generator that outputs a field of a single constant value.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/gameplaykit/gknoisesource)*