# init(string:)

**Framework**: Core Image  
**Kind**: instctr

Initializes a vector with values provided in a string representation.

**Availability**:
- iOS 5.0+
- iPadOS 5.0+
- Mac Catalyst 13.1+
- macOS 10.4+
- tvOS 9.0+
- visionOS 1.0+

## Declaration

```swift
convenience init(string representation: String)
```

## Parameters

- `representation`: A string that is in one of the formats returned by the   method.

## See Also

- [init(values: UnsafePointer<CGFloat>, count: Int)](civector/1437849-init.md)
  Initializes a vector with the provided values.
- [init(x: CGFloat)](civector/1437657-init.md)
  Initializes the first position of a vector with the provided values.
- [init(x: CGFloat, y: CGFloat)](civector/1437865-init.md)
  Initializes the first two positions of a vector with the provided values.
- [init(x: CGFloat, y: CGFloat, z: CGFloat)](civector/1438056-init.md)
  Initializes the first three positions of a vector with the provided values.
- [init(x: CGFloat, y: CGFloat, z: CGFloat, w: CGFloat)](civector/1438088-init.md)
  Initializes four positions of a vector with the provided values.
- [init(cgAffineTransform: CGAffineTransform)](civector/1438102-init.md)
  Initializes a vector that is initialized with values provided by a `CGAffineTransform` structure.
- [init(cgPoint: CGPoint)](civector/1438133-init.md)
  Initializes a vector that is initialized with values provided by a `CGPoint` structure.
- [init(cgRect: CGRect)](civector/1437644-init.md)
  Initializes a vector that is initialized with values provided by a `CGRect` structure.
- [var stringRepresentation: String](civector/1437752-stringrepresentation.md)
  The string representation of the vector.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/coreimage/civector/1437938-init)*