# printSettings

**Framework**: AppKit  
**Kind**: property

A mutable dictionary containing the print settings from Core Printing.

**Availability**:
- macOS 10.5+

## Declaration

```swift
var printSettings: NSMutableDictionary { get }
```

#### Discussion

You can use this property to get and set values from the system print settings. The keys in the dictionary represent the values returned by the Core Printing function [`PMPrintSettingsGetValue(_:_:_:)`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/applicationservices/1460602-pmprintsettingsgetvalue). They correspond to the settings currently in the print panel and include everything from custom values set by your accessory panels to values provided by the printer driver’s print dialog extension.

Adding keys to the dictionary is equivalent to calling the Core Printing function [`PMPrintSettingsSetValue(_:_:_:_:)`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/applicationservices/1461697-pmprintsettingssetvalue). Your new keys are added to the current print settings and are saved with any user preset files generated by the macOS printing system. Because the print settings are stored in a property list, any values you add to the dictionary must correspond to scalar types such as strings, numbers, dates, booleans, and data objects or collection types such as dictionaries and arrays.

Other parts of the printing system use key strings like `com.apple.print.PrintSettings.PMColorSyncProfileID` to identify print settings. Cocoa replaces the periods in such strings with underscores. Thus, the preceding key string would be `com_apple_print_PrintSettings_PMColorSyncProfileID` instead. If you use reverse-DNS style key strings for your custom attributes, you should follow the same convention of using underscore characters instead of periods.

## See Also

- [NSPrintInfo.SettingKey](nsprintinfo/settingkey.md)
  The type you use to specify a print info setting key.
- [func pmPrintSession() -> UnsafeMutableRawPointer](nsprintinfo/pmprintsession.md)
  Returns a Core Printing object configured with the print info’s session information.
- [func pmPageFormat() -> UnsafeMutableRawPointer](nsprintinfo/pmpageformat.md)
  Returns a Core Printing object configured with the print info’s page format information.
- [func pmPrintSettings() -> UnsafeMutableRawPointer](nsprintinfo/pmprintsettings.md)
  Returns a Core Printing object configured with the print info’s print settings information
- [func updateFromPMPageFormat()](nsprintinfo/updatefrompmpageformat.md)
  Synchronizes the print info’s page format information with information from its associated page format object.
- [func updateFromPMPrintSettings()](nsprintinfo/updatefrompmprintsettings.md)
  Synchronizes the print info’s print settings information with information from its associated print settings object.
- [func takeSettings(from: NSPDFInfo)](nsprintinfo/takesettings(from:).md)
  Updates the print info with all the settings and attributes in the specified PDF info object.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appkit/nsprintinfo/printsettings)*