# init

**Framework**: Kernel  
**Kind**: instm

Class initialiser.

## Declaration

```swift
virtual bool init(
 OSObject *owner,
 Action action = 0);
```

#### Return_value

True if inherited classes initialise successfully.

#### Overview

Initialiser for IOCommandGate operates only on newly 'newed' objects. Shouldn't be used to re-init an existing instance.

## Parameters

- `owner`: Owner of this, newly created, instance of the IOCommandGate. This argument will be used as the first parameter in the action callout.
- `action`: Pointer to a C function that is called whenever a client of the IOCommandGate calls runCommand. NB Can be a C++ member function but caller must cast the member function to $link IOCommandGate::Action and they will get a compiler warning. Defaults to zero, see $link IOEventSource::setAction.

## See Also

- [attemptAction](iocommandgate/1811105-attemptaction.md)
  Single thread a call to an action with the target work-loop.
- [attemptCommand](iocommandgate/1811141-attemptcommand.md)
  Single thread a command with the target work-loop.
- [commandGate](iocommandgate/1811293-commandgate.md)
  Factory method to create and initialise an IOCommandGate, See $link init.
- [commandSleep(void *, AbsoluteTime, UInt32)](iocommandgate/1811482-commandsleep.md)
  Put a thread that is currently holding the command gate to sleep.
- [commandSleep(void *, UInt32)](iocommandgate/1811498-commandsleep.md)
  Put a thread that is currently holding the command gate to sleep.
- [commandWakeup](iocommandgate/1811517-commandwakeup.md)
  Wakeup one or more threads that are asleep on an event.
- [disable](iocommandgate/1811531-disable.md)
  Disable the command gate
- [enable](iocommandgate/1811547-enable.md)
  Enable command gate, this will unblock any blocked Commands and Actions.
- [runAction](iocommandgate/1811576-runaction.md)
  Single thread a call to an action with the target work-loop.
- [runCommand](iocommandgate/1811585-runcommand.md)
  Single thread a command with the target work-loop.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/kernel/iocommandgate/1811560-init)*