# TVUserIdentifier

**Framework**: TV Services  
**Kind**: typealias

A unique string for differentiating between accounts on Apple TV.

**Availability**:
- tvOS 13.0+

## Declaration

```swift
typealias TVUserIdentifier = String
```

#### Discussion

This type stores an ASCII string containing no more than 64 characters. The string isn’t the same as the user’s Apple ID, and you should never display it in your app’s interface. It’s a random string generated by the [`TVUserManager`](tvusermanager.md) object and shared among the Apple TV devices on the user’s HomeKit network. You use it to differentiate between different accounts on the same Apple TV.

## See Also

- [var currentUserIdentifier: TVUserIdentifier?](tvusermanager/currentuseridentifier.md)
  A unique identifier representing the currently active Apple TV user.
- [class let currentUserIdentifierDidChangeNotification: NSNotification.Name](tvusermanager/currentuseridentifierdidchangenotification.md)
  The notification the system sends when a different user becomes current.
- [func presentProfilePreferencePanel(currentSettings: [TVUserIdentifier : TVAppProfileDescriptor], availableProfiles: [TVAppProfileDescriptor], completion: ([TVUserIdentifier : TVAppProfileDescriptor]) -> Void)](tvusermanager/presentprofilepreferencepanel(currentsettings:availableprofiles:completion:).md)
  Presents a user-to-profile configuration panel, which lets the user specify their preferred profile.
- [func shouldStorePreferenceForCurrentUser(to: TVAppProfileDescriptor, completion: (Bool) -> Void)](tvusermanager/shouldstorepreferenceforcurrentuser(to:completion:).md)
  Prompts the user to save the specified profile as the preferred profile for the current user.
- [class TVAppProfileDescriptor](tvappprofiledescriptor.md)
  A model object that you use to represent an app-specific profile.
- [var userIdentifiersForCurrentProfile: [TVUserIdentifier]](tvusermanager/useridentifiersforcurrentprofile.md)
  An array of system user identifiers that you associated with the current app-specific profile.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/tvservices/tvuseridentifier)*