# free

**Framework**: Kernel  
**Kind**: instm

Deallocates/releases resources held by the object.

## Declaration

```swift
virtual void free();
```

#### Overview

Classes derived from OSObject should override this function to deallocate or release all dynamic resources held by the instance, then call the superclass's implementation.

1. You can not assume that you have completed initialization before `free` is called, so be very careful in your implementation.
2. OSObject's implementation performs the C++ `delete` of the instance, so be sure that you call the superclass implementation  in your implementation.
3. `free` must not fail; all resources must be deallocated or released on completion.

## See Also

- [getRetainCount](osobject/1941147-getretaincount.md)
  Returns the reference count of the object.
- [init](osobject/1941148-init.md)
  Initializes a newly-allocated object.
- [operator delete](osobject/1941149-operator_delete.md)
  Frees the memory of the object itself.
- [operator new](osobject/1941150-operator_new.md)
  Allocates memory for an instance of the class.
- [release()](osobject/1941151-release.md)
  Releases a reference to the object, freeing it immediately if the reference count drops to zero.
- [release(int)](osobject/1941153-release.md)
  Releases a reference to an object, freeing it immediately if the reference count drops below the specified threshold.
- [retain](osobject/1941154-retain.md)
  Retains a reference to the object.
- [serialize](osobject/1941155-serialize.md)
  Overridden by subclasses to archive the receiver into the provided OSSerialize object.
- [taggedRelease(const void *)](osobject/1941156-taggedrelease.md)
  Releases a tagged reference to an object, freeing it immediately if the reference count drops to zero.
- [taggedRelease(const void *, const int)](osobject/1941157-taggedrelease.md)
  Releases a tagged reference to an object, freeing it immediately if the reference count drops below the specified threshold.
- [taggedRetain](osobject/1941158-taggedretain.md)
  Retains a reference to the object with an optional tag used for reference-tracking.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/kernel/osobject/1941146-free)*