# init

**Framework**: Kernel  
**Kind**: instm

Standard initializer for IORangeAllocator.

## Declaration

```swift
virtual bool init(
 IORangeScalarendOfRange, 
 IORangeScalardefaultAlignment, 
 UInt32capacity, 
 IOOptionBitsoptions );
```

#### Return_value

Returns true if the instance is successfully initialized, false on failure.

#### Overview

This method initializes an IORangeAllocator and optionally sets the free list to contain one fragment, from zero to an endOfRange parameter. The capacity in terms of free fragments and locking options are set for the instance.

## Parameters

- `endOfRange`: If the free list is to contain an initial fragment, set endOfRange to the last offset in the range, ie. size - 1, to create a free fragment for the range zero to endOfRange inclusive. If zero is passed, the free list will be initialized empty, and can be populated with calls to the deallocate method.
- `defaultAlignment`: If this parameter is non-zero it specifies a required alignment for all allocations, for example pass 256 to align allocations on 256 byte boundaries. Zero or one specify unaligned allocations.
- `capacity`: Sets the initial size of the free list in number of noncontiguous fragments. This value is also used for the capacityIncrement.
- `options`: Pass kLocking if the instance can be used by multiple threads.

## See Also

- [allocate](iorangeallocator/1810255-allocate.md)
  Allocates from the free list, at any offset.
- [allocateRange](iorangeallocator/1810314-allocaterange.md)
  Allocates from the free list, at a set offset.
- [deallocate](iorangeallocator/1810361-deallocate.md)
  Deallocates a range to the free list.
- [getFragmentCapacity](iorangeallocator/1810407-getfragmentcapacity.md)
  Accessor to return the number of free fragments in the range.
- [getFragmentCount](iorangeallocator/1810456-getfragmentcount.md)
  Accessor to return the number of free fragments in the range.
- [getFreeCount](iorangeallocator/1810490-getfreecount.md)
  Totals the sizes of the free fragments.
- [setFragmentCapacityIncrement](iorangeallocator/1810575-setfragmentcapacityincrement.md)
  Sets the count of fragments the free list will increase by when full.
- [withRange](iorangeallocator/1810621-withrange.md)
  Standard factory method for IORangeAllocator.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/kernel/iorangeallocator/1810534-init)*