# hidVirtualDevice(_:receivedGetReportRequestOfType:id:maxSize:)

**Framework**: Core HID  
**Kind**: method  
**Required**: Yes

A notification that a get report request has been received from the system.

**Availability**:
- macOS 15.0+

## Declaration

```swift
func hidVirtualDevice(_ device: HIDVirtualDevice, receivedGetReportRequestOfType type: HIDReportType, id: HIDReportID?, maxSize: Int) async throws -> Data
```

#### Return Value

The bytes to return in response to the requested report. Determining the correct values can be aided by referencing the device’s report descriptor.

#### Discussion

Get report requests are generated by other clients on the system, which includes system processes or other user apps. The response to a get report request is generally determined by the device’s report descriptor. However, a device can respond in whatever way it chooses.

For more details, see [`Human Interface Devices (HID) Specifications and Tools`](https://developer.apple.comhttps://www.usb.org/hid).

> **Note**: This should throw [`HIDDeviceError`](hiddeviceerror.md) if there is an issue with the request, throwing another type of error isn’t supported.

## Parameters

- `device`: The device that received the notification.
- `type`: The   of the requested report.
- `id`: The ID of the requested report. This may not be populated if the descriptor contains only one report.
- `maxSize`: The maximum size of data that can be transmitted back to the client. The data returned by this function must not exceed this size.

## See Also

- [func hidVirtualDevice(HIDVirtualDevice, receivedSetReportRequestOfType: HIDReportType, id: HIDReportID?, data: Data) async throws](hidvirtualdevicedelegate/hidvirtualdevice(_:receivedsetreportrequestoftype:id:data:).md)
  A notification that a set report request has been received from the system.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/corehid/hidvirtualdevicedelegate/hidvirtualdevice(_:receivedgetreportrequestoftype:id:maxsize:))*