# hidVirtualDevice(_:receivedSetReportRequestOfType:id:data:)

**Framework**: Core HID  
**Kind**: method  
**Required**: Yes

A notification that a set report request has been received from the system.

**Availability**:
- macOS 15.0+

## Declaration

```swift
func hidVirtualDevice(_ device: HIDVirtualDevice, receivedSetReportRequestOfType type: HIDReportType, id: HIDReportID?, data: Data) async throws
```

#### Discussion

Set report requests are generated by other clients on the system, which includes system processes or other user apps. The reaction to a set report request is generally determined by the device’s report descriptor. However, a device can react in whatever way it chooses.

For more details, see [`Human Interface Devices (HID) Specifications and Tools`](https://developer.apple.comhttps://www.usb.org/hid).

> **Note**: This should throw [`HIDDeviceError`](hiddeviceerror.md) if there is an issue with the request, throwing another type of error isn’t supported.

This should throw [`HIDDeviceError`](hiddeviceerror.md) if there is an issue with the request, throwing another type of error isn’t supported.

## Parameters

- `device`: The device that received the notification.
- `type`: The   of the report.
- `id`: The ID of the received report. This may not be populated if the descriptor contains only one report.
- `data`: The data received in the request. The contents are determined by the client, and may not adhere to the device’s report descriptor.

## See Also

- [func hidVirtualDevice(HIDVirtualDevice, receivedGetReportRequestOfType: HIDReportType, id: HIDReportID?, maxSize: Int) async throws -> Data](hidvirtualdevicedelegate/hidvirtualdevice(_:receivedgetreportrequestoftype:id:maxsize:).md)
  A notification that a get report request has been received from the system.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/corehid/hidvirtualdevicedelegate/hidvirtualdevice(_:receivedsetreportrequestoftype:id:data:))*