# WWDC23

**Framework**: Updates

Highlights of new technologies introduced at WWDC23.

#### Overview

Browse a selection of documentation for new technologies, frameworks, and APIs introduced at WWDC23. Many existing frameworks have added significant functionality, and you’ll find new ways to enhance your apps targeting the latest platform release.

For a comprehensive list of downloadable sample code projects, see [`WWDC23 Sample Code`](https://developer.apple.comhttps://developer.apple.com/sample-code). For the latest design guidance localized in multiple languages, see [`Human Interface Guidelines > What’s New`](https://developer.apple.comhttps://developer.apple.com/design/whats-new/).

## Topics

### visionOS
- [visionOS](../visionOS/visionOS.md)
  Create a new universe of apps and games for Apple Vision Pro.
- [Hello World](../visionOS/World.md)
  Use windows, volumes, and immersive spaces to teach people about the Earth.
- [Creating your first visionOS app](../visionOS/creating-your-first-visionos-app.md)
  Build a new visionOS app using SwiftUI and add platform-specific features.
- [Designing for visionOS](https://developer.apple.com/design/Human-Interface-Guidelines/designing-for-visionos)
  When people wear Apple Vision Pro, they enter an infinite 3D space where they can engage with your app or game while staying connected to their surroundings.
- [Adding 3D content to your app](../visionOS/adding-3d-content-to-your-app.md)
  Add depth and dimension to your visionOS app and discover how to incorporate your app’s content into a person’s surroundings.
- [Bringing your existing apps to visionOS](../visionOS/bringing-your-app-to-visionos.md)
  Build a version of your iPadOS or iOS app using the visionOS SDK, and update your code for platform differences.
### SwiftData
- [SwiftData](../SwiftData/SwiftData.md)
  Write your model code declaratively to add managed persistence and efficient model fetching.
- [Building a document-based app using SwiftData](../SwiftUI/Building-a-document-based-app-using-SwiftData.md)
  Code along with the WWDC presenter to transform an app with SwiftData.
### Widgets, Live Activities, and watchOS complications
- [WidgetKit](../WidgetKit/WidgetKit.md)
  Extend the reach of your app by creating widgets, watch complications, Live Activities, and controls.
- [Developing a WidgetKit strategy](../WidgetKit/Developing-a-WidgetKit-strategy.md)
  Explore features, tasks, related frameworks, and constraints as you make a plan to implement widgets, controls, watch complications, and Live Activities.
- [Emoji Rangers: Supporting Live Activities, interactivity, and animations](../WidgetKit/emoji-rangers-supporting-live-activities-interactivity-and-animations.md)
  Offer Live Activities, controls, animate data updates, and add interactivity to widgets.
- [Creating a widget extension](../WidgetKit/Creating-a-Widget-Extension.md)
  Display your app’s content in a convenient, informative widget on various devices.
- [Making network requests in a widget extension](../WidgetKit/Making-network-requests-in-a-widget-extension.md)
  Update your widget with new information you fetch with a network request.
- [Creating views for widgets, Live Activities, and watch complications](../WidgetKit/Creating-views-for-widgets-Live-Activities-and-watch-complications.md)
  Implement glanceable views with WidgetKit and SwiftUI.
- [Creating accessory widgets and watch complications](../WidgetKit/Creating-accessory-widgets-and-watch-complications.md)
  Support accessory widgets that appear on the Lock Screen and as complications on Apple Watch.
- [Supporting additional widget sizes](../WidgetKit/Supporting-additional-widget-sizes.md)
  Offer widgets in additional contexts by adding support for various widget sizes.
- [Preparing widgets for additional platforms, contexts, and appearances](../WidgetKit/Preparing-widgets-for-additional-contexts-and-appearances.md)
  Create widgets that support additional platforms and adapt to their context.
- [Adding interactivity to widgets and Live Activities](../WidgetKit/Adding-interactivity-to-widgets-and-Live-Activities.md)
  Include buttons or toggles in a widget or Live Activity to offer app functionality without launching the app.
- [Animating data updates in widgets and Live Activities](../WidgetKit/Animating-data-updates-in-widgets-and-live-activities.md)
  Use SwiftUI animations to indicate data updates in your widgets and Live Activities.
- [Linking to specific app scenes from your widget or Live Activity](../WidgetKit/Linking-to-specific-app-scenes-from-your-widget-or-Live-Activity.md)
  Add deep links to your widgets and Live Activities that enable people to open a specific scene in your app.
- [Making a configurable widget](../WidgetKit/Making-a-Configurable-Widget.md)
  Give people the option to customize their widgets by adding a custom app intent to your project.
- [Migrating widgets from SiriKit Intents to App Intents](../WidgetKit/Migrating-from-SiriKit-Intents-to-App-Intents.md)
  Configure your widgets for backward compatibility.
- [Keeping a widget up to date](../WidgetKit/Keeping-a-Widget-Up-To-Date.md)
  Plan your widget’s timeline to show timely, relevant information using dynamic views, and update the timeline when things change.
- [Increasing the visibility of widgets in Smart Stacks](../WidgetKit/Widget-Suggestions-In-Smart-Stacks.md)
  Provide contextual information and donate intents to the system to make sure your widget appears prominently in Smart Stacks.
- [ActivityKit](../ActivityKit/ActivityKit.md)
  Share live updates from your app as Live Activities on iPhone, iPad, Apple Watch, and the Mac.
- [Displaying live data with Live Activities](../ActivityKit/displaying-live-data-with-live-activities.md)
  Display up-to-date data and offer quick interactions in the Dynamic Island, on the Lock Screen, in CarPlay, and on a paired Mac or Apple Watch.
### SwiftUI
- [SwiftUI updates](SwiftUI.md)
  Learn about important changes to SwiftUI.
- [Observation](../Observation/Observation.md)
  Make responsive apps that update the presentation when underlying data changes.
- [Backyard Birds: Building an app with SwiftData and widgets](../SwiftUI/Backyard-birds-sample.md)
  Create an app with persistent data, interactive widgets, and an all new in-app purchase experience.
- [struct ContentUnavailableView<Label, Description, Actions> where Label : View, Description : View, Actions : View](../SwiftUI/ContentUnavailableView.md)
  An interface, consisting of a label and additional content, that you display when the content of your app is unavailable to users.
- [@preconcurrency protocol CustomAnimation : Hashable, Sendable](../SwiftUI/CustomAnimation.md)
  A type that defines how an animatable value changes over time.
- [struct PhaseAnimator<Phase, Content> where Phase : Equatable, Content : View](../SwiftUI/PhaseAnimator.md)
  A container that animates its content by automatically cycling through a collection of phases that you provide, each defining a discrete step within an animation.
- [struct TableColumnCustomization<RowValue> where RowValue : Identifiable](../SwiftUI/TableColumnCustomization.md)
  A representation of the state of the columns in a table.
- [struct OutlineGroup<Data, ID, Parent, Leaf, Subgroup> where Data : RandomAccessCollection, ID : Hashable](../SwiftUI/OutlineGroup.md)
  A structure that computes views and disclosure groups on demand from an underlying collection of tree-structured, identified data.
- [@MainActor @preconcurrency struct SectorMark](../Charts/SectorMark.md)
  A sector of a pie or donut chart, which shows how individual categories make up a meaningful total.
### Xcode and developer tools
- [Xcode updates](Xcode.md)
  Learn about important changes to Xcode.
- [Downloading and installing additional Xcode components](../Xcode/downloading-and-installing-additional-xcode-components.md)
  Add more Simulator runtimes, optional features, and support for additional platforms.
- [Localizing and varying text with a string catalog](../Xcode/localizing-and-varying-text-with-a-string-catalog.md)
  Use a string catalog to translate text, handle plurals, and vary the text your app displays on specific devices.
- [Capabilities](../Xcode/capabilities.md)
  Enable services that Apple provides, such as In-App Purchase, Push Notifications, Apple Pay, iCloud, and many others.
- [Verifying the origin of your XCFrameworks](../Xcode/verifying-the-origin-of-your-xcframeworks.md)
  Discover who signed a framework, and take action when that changes.
- [Configuring your project to use mergeable libraries](../Xcode/configuring-your-project-to-use-mergeable-libraries.md)
  Use mergeable dynamic libraries to get app launch times similar to static linking in release builds, without losing dynamically linked build times in debug builds.
- [Describing data use in privacy manifests](../BundleResources/describing-data-use-in-privacy-manifests.md)
  Declare the data collected by your app or by third-party SDKs.
- [Distributing your app for beta testing and releases](../Xcode/distributing-your-app-for-beta-testing-and-releases.md)
  Release your app to beta testers and users.
- [Creating a workflow that builds your app for distribution](../Xcode/Creating-a-workflow-that-builds-your-app-for-distribution.md)
  Configure a workflow to build and sign your app for distribution to testers with TestFlight, in the App Store, or as a notarized app.
- [Debugging](../Xcode/debugging.md)
  Identify and address issues in your app using the Xcode debugger, Xcode Organizer, Metal debugger, and Instruments.
### watchOS
- [watchOS updates](watchos.md)
  Learn about important changes to watchOS.
- [Updating your app and widgets for watchOS 10](../watchOS-Apps/updating-your-app-and-widgets-for-watchos-10.md)
  Integrate SwiftUI elements and watch-specific features, and build widgets for the Smart Stack.
- [Designing for watchOS](https://developer.apple.com/design/Human-Interface-Guidelines/designing-for-watchos)
  When people glance at their Apple Watch, they know they can access essential information and perform simple, timely tasks whether they’re stationary or in motion.
- [Increasing the visibility of widgets in Smart Stacks](../WidgetKit/Widget-Suggestions-In-Smart-Stacks.md)
  Provide contextual information and donate intents to the system to make sure your widget appears prominently in Smart Stacks.
- [WorkoutKit](../WorkoutKit/WorkoutKit.md)
  Create, preview, and sync workout compositions to the Workout app.
### Messages apps and stickers
- [Messages](../Messages/Messages.md)
  Create app extensions that allow users to send text, stickers, media files, and interactive messages.
- [Adding Sticker packs and iMessage apps to the system Stickers app, Messages camera, and FaceTime](../Messages/adding-sticker-packs-and-imessage-apps-to-the-system-stickers-app-messages-camera-and-facetime.md)
  Enable your Sticker pack or iMessage app in the media context.
- [enum MSMessagesAppPresentationContext](../Messages/MSMessagesAppPresentationContext.md)
  Presentation contexts describing where your iMessage app appears.
### UIKit
- [UIKit updates](UIKit.md)
  Learn about important changes to UIKit.
- [CFBundleDocumentTypes](../BundleResources/Information-Property-List/CFBundleDocumentTypes.md)
  The document types supported by the bundle.
- [@MainActor @preconcurrency class func animate(springDuration duration: TimeInterval = 0.5, bounce: CGFloat = 0.0, initialSpringVelocity: CGFloat = 0.0, delay: TimeInterval = 0.0, options: UIView.AnimationOptions = [], animations: () -> Void, completion: ((Bool) -> Void)? = nil)](../UIKit/UIView/animate(springDuration:bounce:initialSpringVelocity:delay:options:animations:completion:).md)
  Animates changes to one or more views using a spring animation with the specified duration, bounce, initial velocity, delay, options, and completion handler.
- [@MainActor func viewIsAppearing(_ animated: Bool)](../UIKit/UIViewController/viewIsAppearing(_:).md)
  Notifies the view controller that the system is adding the view controller’s view to a view hierarchy.
- [struct UIContentUnavailableConfiguration](../UIKit/UIContentUnavailableConfiguration-swift.struct.md)
  A content configuration for a content-unavailable view.
- [CFBundleDocumentTypes](../BundleResources/Information-Property-List/CFBundleDocumentTypes.md)
  The document types supported by the bundle.
- [@MainActor var allowsKeyboardScrolling: Bool { get set }](../UIKit/UIScrollView/allowsKeyboardScrolling.md)
  A Boolean value that determines whether the scroll view allows scrolling its content with hardware keyboard input.
- [UIStatusBarStyle.default](../UIKit/UIStatusBarStyle/default.md)
  A style that automatically selects an appearance for the status bar and updates it dynamically to maintain contrast with the content below it.
### Audio, video, and media
- [Supporting Continuity Camera in your tvOS app](../AVKit/supporting-continuity-camera-in-your-tvos-app.md)
  Capture high-quality photos, video, and audio in your Apple TV app by connecting an iPhone or iPad as a continuity device.
- [Cinematic](../Cinematic/Cinematic.md)
  Integrate playback and editing of assets captured in Cinematic mode into your app.
- [SensitiveContentAnalysis](../SensitiveContentAnalysis/SensitiveContentAnalysis.md)
  Provide a safer experience in your app by detecting and alerting users to nudity in images and videos before displaying them onscreen.
- [@MainActor class AVContinuityDevicePickerViewController](../AVKit/AVContinuityDevicePickerViewController.md)
  A view controller that provides an interface to a person so they can select and connect a continuity device to the system.
### Metal
- [Metal debugger](../Xcode/Metal-debugger.md)
  Debug and profile your Metal workload with a GPU trace.
- [Metal developer workflows](../Xcode/Metal-developer-workflows.md)
  Locate and fix issues related to your app’s use of the Metal API and GPU functions.
- [MetalFX](../MetalFX/MetalFX.md)
  Boost your Metal app’s performance by upscaling lower-resolution content to save GPU time.
### Maps and location
- [MapKit for SwiftUI](../MapKit/mapkit-for-swiftui.md)
  MapKit for SwiftUI allows you to build map-centric views and apps across Apple platforms. You can design expressive and highly interactive Maps with minimal code by composing views, using ViewBuilders and view modifiers.
- [Monitoring location changes with Core Location](../CoreLocation/monitoring-location-changes-with-core-location.md)
  Define boundaries and act on user location updates.
- [Core Location](../CoreLocation/CoreLocation.md)
  Obtain the geographic location and orientation of a device.
### App Store and distribution
- [StoreKit](../StoreKit/StoreKit.md)
  Support In-App Purchases and interactions with the App Store.
- [App Store Server API](../AppStoreServerAPI/AppStoreServerAPI.md)
  Manage your customers’ App Store transactions from your server.
- [App Store Server Notifications changelog](../AppStoreServerNotifications/app-store-server-notifications-changelog.md)
  Learn about changes to the App Store Server Notifications service.
- [App Store Connect API Release Notes](../AppStoreConnectAPI/app-store-connect-api-release-notes.md)
  Learn about new features and updates in the App Store Connect API.
### Security and privacy
- [@MainActor class ASCredentialProviderViewController](../AuthenticationServices/ASCredentialProviderViewController.md)
  A view controller that a credential manager app uses to extend AutoFill.
- [Accessing files from the macOS App Sandbox](../Security/accessing-files-from-the-macos-app-sandbox.md)
  Read and write documents and supporting files while maintaining security protection.
- [Accessing the event store](../EventKit/accessing-the-event-store.md)
  Request access to a person’s calendar data through the event store.
- [enum HPKE](../CryptoKit/HPKE.md)
  A container for hybrid public key encryption (HPKE) operations.
### Extensions and XPC
- [XPC updates](XPC.md)
  Learn about important changes to XPC.
- [class XPCListener](../XPC/XPCListener.md)
  A type that performs tasks for clients across process boundaries.
- [class XPCSession](../XPC/XPCSession.md)
  A type that sends messages to a server process.
- [ExtensionKit](../ExtensionKit/ExtensionKit.md)
  Create executable bundles to extend the functionality of other apps by presenting a user interface.
- [ExtensionFoundation](../ExtensionFoundation/ExtensionFoundation.md)
  Create executable bundles to extend the functionality of other apps.
### Group activities and sharing
- [final class GroupSessionJournal](../GroupActivities/GroupSessionJournal.md)
  An object that manages file and data transfers between participants joined in a group session.
- [Drawing content in a group session](../groupactivities/drawing_content_in_a_group_session.md)
  Invite your friends to draw on a shared canvas while on a FaceTime call.
- [Group Activities](../GroupActivities/GroupActivities.md)
  Create app-specific activities your users can share and experience together.
### Machine learning
- [Creating an Image Classifier Model](../CreateML/creating-an-image-classifier-model.md)
  Train a machine learning model to classify images, and add it to your Core ML app.
- [VisionKit](../VisionKit/VisionKit.md)
  Identify and extract information in the environment using the device’s camera, or in images that your app displays.
### Health
- [HealthKit updates](HealthKit.md)
  Learn about important changes to HealthKit.
### Apple Pay and Wallet
- [ProximityReader](../ProximityReader/ProximityReader.md)
  Read contactless physical and digital wallet cards using your iPhone.
- [Checking IDs with the Verifier API](../ProximityReader/checking-ids-with-the-verifier-api.md)
  Read and verify mobile driver’s license information without any additional hardware.
- [@MainActor @preconcurrency struct PayLaterView<FallbackView> where FallbackView : View](../PassKit/PayLaterView.md)
  A view that displays the Apple Pay Later visual merchandising widget.
### Hardware and virtual machines
- [SensorKit](../SensorKit/SensorKit.md)
  Retrieve data and derived metrics from sensors on an iPhone, or paired Apple Watch.
- [DockKit](../DockKit/DockKit.md)
  Interact with accessories that track subjects on camera as they move around.
- [Virtualization](../Virtualization/Virtualization.md)
  Create virtual machines and run macOS and Linux-based operating systems.
### Screen capture
- [ScreenCaptureKit updates](ScreenCaptureKit.md)
  Learn about important changes to ScreenCaptureKit.
### Symbols
- [Symbols](../Symbols/Symbols.md)
  Apply universal animations to symbol-based images.

## See Also

- [WWDC25](wwdc2025.md)
  Highlights of new technologies introduced at WWDC25.
- [WWDC24](wwdc2024.md)
  Highlights of new technologies introduced at WWDC24.
- [WWDC22](wwdc2022.md)
  Highlights of new technologies introduced at WWDC22.
- [WWDC21](wwdc2021.md)
  Highlights of new technologies introduced at WWDC21.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/updates/wwdc2023)*