# WWDC24

**Framework**: Updates

Highlights of new technologies introduced at WWDC24.

#### Overview

Browse a selection of documentation for new technologies and frameworks introduced at WWDC24. Many existing frameworks have added significant functionality, and you’ll find new ways to enhance your apps targeting the latest platform release.

For a comprehensive list of downloadable sample code projects, see [`WWDC24 Sample Code`](https://developer.apple.comhttps://developer.apple.com/sample-code). For the latest design guidance localized in multiple languages, see [`Human Interface Guidelines > What’s New`](https://developer.apple.comhttps://developer.apple.com/design/whats-new/).

## Topics

### Accessibility and inclusion
- [Enhancing the accessibility of your SwiftUI app](../Accessibility/enhancing-the-accessibility-of-your-swiftui-app.md)
  Support advancements in SwiftUI accessibility to make your app accessible to everyone.
- [Optimizing your app for Assistive Access](../Accessibility/optimizing-your-app-for-assistive-access.md)
  Adjust your app’s UI to make sure it works well for people who use Assistive Access.
- [Music Haptics](../MediaAccessibility/music-haptics.md)
  Play haptic tracks along with known music tracks.
### App services
- [Building a guessing game for visionOS](../GroupActivities/building-a-guessing-game-for-visionos.md)
  Create a team-based guessing game for visionOS using Group Activities.
- [Discovering HID devices from Terminal](../CoreHID/DiscoveringHIDDevicesFromTerminal.md)
  Identify devices connected to your Mac from the command line.
- [Creating virtual devices](../CoreHID/CreatingVirtualDevices.md)
  Use and interact with a virtual human interface device for testing and development.
### Audio and video
- [Creating a MIDI device driver](../MIDIDriverKit/creating-a-midi-device-driver.md)
  Implement a configurable virtual MIDI driver as a driver extension that runs in user space in macOS and iPadOS.
### App Store distribution and marketing
- [Implementing Wallet Extensions](../PassKit/implementing-wallet-extensions.md)
  Support adding an issued card to Apple Pay from directly within Apple Wallet using Wallet Extensions.
- [Loading the latest version of the Apple Pay JS SDK](../ApplePayontheWeb/loading-the-latest-version-of-apple-pay-js.md)
  Link to the most recent autoupdating version of the Apple Pay JS SDK or a version of your choice.
- [Testing win-back offers in Xcode](../StoreKit/testing-win-back-offers-in-xcode.md)
  Validate your app’s handling of win-back offers that you configure for the testing environment.
### Developer tools
- [Configuring your app icon using an asset catalog](../Xcode/configuring-your-app-icon.md)
  Add app icon variations to an asset catalog that represents your app in places such as the App Store, the Home Screen, Settings, and search results.
- [Determining how much code your tests cover](../Xcode/determining-how-much-code-your-tests-cover.md)
  Use code coverage to focus new test development on areas that lack adequate testing.
- [Adding tests to your Xcode project](../Xcode/adding-tests-to-your-xcode-project.md)
  Include test targets that build code to test the logic in your functions, check for integration issues, automate UI workflows, and measure performance.
- [Updating your existing codebase to accommodate unit tests](../Xcode/updating-your-existing-codebase-to-accommodate-unit-tests.md)
  Remove coupling between components to increase test coverage and reliability.
- [Building your project with explicit module dependencies](../Xcode/building-your-project-with-explicit-module-dependencies.md)
  Reduce compile times by eliminating unnecessary module variants using the Xcode build system.
### Graphics and games
- [Adding touch controls to games that support game controllers in iOS](../GameController/adding-touch-controls-to-games-that-support-game-controllers-in-ios.md)
  Use touch input and virtual controllers to make your game available to players without controllers.
- [Improving the player experience for games with large downloads](../GameKit/improving-the-player-experience-for-games-with-large-downloads.md)
  Provide ample content in your base installation and then use on-demand resources and the Background Assets API to handle additional content.
- [Improving your game’s graphics performance and settings](../Metal/improving-your-games-graphics-performance-and-settings.md)
  Fix performance glitches and develop default settings for smooth experiences on Apple platforms using the powerful suite of Metal development tools.
- [Adapting your game interface for smaller screens](../Metal/adapting-your-game-interface-for-smaller-screens.md)
  Make text legible on all devices the player chooses to run your game on.
- [Personalizing spatial audio in your app](../PHASE/personalizing-spatial-audio-in-your-app.md)
  Enhance the realism of spatial audio output by tracking a person’s head movement and accounting for their personal spatial audio profile.
### Health and fitness
- [Visualizing HealthKit State of Mind in visionOS](../HealthKit/visualizing-healthkit-state-of-mind-in-visionos.md)
  Incorporate HealthKit State of Mind into your app and visualize the data in visionOS.
- [Authorizing access to health data](../HealthKit/authorizing-access-to-health-data.md)
  Request permission to read and share data in your app.
### Maps and location
- [Creating a Maps token](../MapKitJS/creating-a-maps-token.md)
  Generate your token to access MapKit services with proper authorization.
- [Identifying unique locations with Place IDs](../MapKit/identifying-unique-locations-with-place-ids.md)
  Obtain information about a point of interest that persists over its lifetime.
- [Displaying place information using the Maps Embed API](../MapKitJS/displaying-place-information-using-the-maps-embed-api.md)
  Show place information on a map using a URL.
- [Monitoring the user’s proximity to geographic regions](../CoreLocation/monitoring-the-user-s-proximity-to-geographic-regions.md)
  Use condition monitoring to determine when the user enters or leaves a geographic region.
### ML and Vision
- [Core ML](../CoreML/CoreML.md)
  Integrate machine learning models into your app.
- [Vision](../Vision/Vision.md)
  Apply computer vision algorithms to perform a variety of tasks on input images and videos.
### Photos and camera
- [Writing spatial photos](../ImageIO/writing-spatial-photos.md)
  Create spatial photos for visionOS by packaging a pair of left- and right-eye images as a stereo HEIC file with related spatial metadata.
- [Creating spatial photos and videos with spatial metadata](../ImageIO/Creating-spatial-photos-and-videos-with-spatial-metadata.md)
  Add spatial metadata to stereo photos and videos to create spatial media for viewing on Apple Vision Pro.
### Spatial computing
- [Interacting with your app in the visionOS simulator](../Xcode/interacting-with-your-app-in-the-visionos-simulator.md)
  Use your Mac to navigate spaces and control interactions with your visionOS apps in Simulator.
- [Understanding the visionOS render pipeline](../visionOS/understanding-the-visionos-render-pipeline.md)
  Compare how visionOS handles events and manages its rendering loop differently from other Apple platforms.
### Swift
- [Creating a data visualization dashboard with Swift Charts](../Charts/creating-a-data-visualization-dashboard-with-swift-charts.md)
  Visualize an entire data collection efficiently by instantiating a single vectorized plot in Swift Charts.
- [Traits](../Testing/Traits.md)
  Annotate test functions and suites, and customize their behavior.
- [Running tests serially or in parallel](../Testing/Parallelization.md)
  Control whether tests run serially or in parallel.
- [Testing asynchronous code](../Testing/testing-asynchronous-code.md)
  Validate whether your code causes expected events to happen.
- [Defining test functions](../Testing/DefiningTests.md)
  Define a test function to validate that code is working correctly.
- [Migrating a test from XCTest](../Testing/MigratingFromXCTest.md)
  Migrate an existing test method or test class written using XCTest.
### SwiftUI and UI frameworks
- [Creating visual effects with SwiftUI](../SwiftUI/Creating-visual-effects-with-SwiftUI.md)
  Add scroll effects, rich color treatments, custom transitions, and advanced effects using shaders and a text renderer.
- [Elevating your iPad app with a tab bar and sidebar](../UIKit/elevating-your-ipad-app-with-a-tab-bar-and-sidebar.md)
  Provide a compact, ergonomic tab bar for quick access to key parts of your app, and a sidebar for in-depth navigation.
- [Customizing a document-based app’s launch experience](../UIKit/customizing-a-document-based-app-s-launch-experience.md)
  Add unique elements to your app’s document launch scene.
- [Collaborating and sharing copies of your data](../UIKit/collaborating-and-sharing-copies-of-your-data.md)
  Share data and collaborate with people from your app.
### System services
- [Creating your first app intent](../AppIntents/Creating-your-first-app-intent.md)
  Create your first app intent that makes your app available in system experiences like Spotlight or the Shortcuts app.
- [Making actions and content discoverable and widely available](../AppIntents/Making-actions-and-content-discoverable-and-widely-available.md)
  Adopt App Intents to make your app discoverable with Spotlight, controls, widgets, and the Action button.
- [Identifying and blocking calls](../CallKit/identifying-and-blocking-calls.md)
  Create a Call Directory app extension to identify and block incoming callers by their phone number.
- [Getting up-to-date calling and blocking information for your app](../IdentityLookup/getting-up-to-date-calling-and-blocking-information-for-your-app.md)
  Implement the Live Caller ID Lookup app extension to provide call-blocking and identity services.
- [Adding your app’s content to Spotlight indexes](../CoreSpotlight/adding-your-app-s-content-to-spotlight-indexes.md)
  Create a description for your app’s content and add it to a Spotlight index to make it searchable.
- [Building a search interface for your app](../CoreSpotlight/building-a-search-interface-for-your-app.md)
  Add a search interface to your app to execute Spotlight queries and offer suggested text completions.
- [Searching for information in your app](../CoreSpotlight/searching-for-information-in-your-app.md)
  Search for app-specific content and refine search results using predicates and filters.
- [Sending channel management requests to APNs](../UserNotifications/sending-channel-management-requests-to-apns.md)
  Manage channels that your application uses for broadcast push notifications.
- [Troubleshooting push notifications](../UserNotifications/troubleshooting-push-notifications.md)
  Debug your server to send push notifications with device and broadcast push notifications.
- [Using iCloud with macOS virtual machines](../Virtualization/using-icloud-with-macos-virtual-machines.md)
  Access iCloud from macOS guest virtual machines.

## See Also

- [WWDC25](wwdc2025.md)
  Highlights of new technologies introduced at WWDC25.
- [WWDC23](wwdc2023.md)
  Highlights of new technologies introduced at WWDC23.
- [WWDC22](wwdc2022.md)
  Highlights of new technologies introduced at WWDC22.
- [WWDC21](wwdc2021.md)
  Highlights of new technologies introduced at WWDC21.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/updates/wwdc2024)*