# WWDC21

**Framework**: Updates

Highlights of new technologies introduced at WWDC21.

#### Overview

Newer documentation highlights are available in [`WWDC22`](wwdc2022.md). This page is an archive from WWDC21.

Check out a selection of documentation for new technologies, frameworks, and APIs introduced at WWDC21. Existing frameworks have added significant functionality, and you’ll find new ways to enhance your apps targeting the latest platform release.

## Topics

### Xcode Cloud
- [Xcode Cloud](../Xcode/Xcode-Cloud.md)
  Automatically build, test, and distribute your apps with Xcode Cloud to verify changes and create high-quality apps.
- [About continuous integration and delivery with Xcode Cloud](../Xcode/About-Continuous-Integration-and-Delivery-with-Xcode-Cloud.md)
  Learn how continuous integration and delivery with Xcode Cloud helps you create high-quality apps and frameworks.
- [Configuring your first Xcode Cloud workflow](../Xcode/Configuring-Your-First-Xcode-Cloud-Workflow.md)
  Set up your project or workspace to use Xcode Cloud and adopt continuous integration and delivery.
### SwiftUI
- [Building a great Mac app with SwiftUI](../SwiftUI/building-a-great-mac-app-with-swiftui.md)
  Create engaging SwiftUI Mac apps by incorporating side bars, tables, toolbars, and several other popular user interface elements.
- [Add rich graphics to your SwiftUI app](../SwiftUI/add-rich-graphics-to-your-swiftui-app.md)
  Make your apps stand out by adding background materials, vibrancy, custom graphics, and animations.
- [struct TimelineView](../SwiftUI/TimelineView.md)
  A view that updates according to a schedule that you provide.
- [struct AsyncImage](../SwiftUI/AsyncImage.md)
  A view that asynchronously loads and displays an image.
- [struct FocusState](../SwiftUI/FocusState.md)
  A property wrapper type that can read and write a value that SwiftUI updates as the placement of focus within the scene changes.
- [struct Table](../SwiftUI/Table.md)
  A container that presents rows of data arranged in one or more columns, optionally providing the ability to select one or more members.
- [struct Canvas](../SwiftUI/Canvas.md)
  A view type that supports immediate mode drawing.
- [struct Material](../SwiftUI/Material.md)
  A background material type.
- [func swipeActions<T>(edge: HorizontalEdge, allowsFullSwipe: Bool, content: () -> T) -> some View](../SwiftUI/View/swipeActions(edge:allowsFullSwipe:content:).md)
  Adds custom swipe actions to a row in a list.
- [func badge(LocalizedStringKey?) -> some View](../SwiftUI/View/badge(_:)-84e43.md)
  Generates a badge for the view from a localized string key.
- [func searchable(text: Binding<String>, placement: SearchFieldPlacement, prompt: Text?) -> some View](../SwiftUI/View/searchable(text:placement:prompt:)-18a8f.md)
  Marks this view as searchable, which configures the display of a search field.
- [func listRowSeparatorTint(Color?, edges: VerticalEdge.Set) -> some View](../SwiftUI/View/listRowSeparatorTint(_:edges:).md)
  Sets the tint color associated with a row.
- [func previewInterfaceOrientation(InterfaceOrientation) -> some View](../SwiftUI/View/previewInterfaceOrientation(_:).md)
  Overrides the orientation of the preview.
- [func symbolVariant(SymbolVariants) -> some View](../SwiftUI/View/symbolVariant(_:).md)
  Makes symbols within the view show a particular variant.
- [func symbolRenderingMode(SymbolRenderingMode?) -> some View](../SwiftUI/View/symbolRenderingMode(_:).md)
  Sets the rendering mode for symbol images within this view.
### SharePlay and Group Activities
- [Group Activities](../GroupActivities/GroupActivities.md)
  Create app-specific activities your users can share and experience together.
### DocC
- [DocC](../DocC/DocC.md)
  Produce rich API reference documentation and interactive tutorials for your app, framework, or package.
### Notifications
- [User Notifications](../UserNotifications/UserNotifications.md)
  Push user-facing notifications to the user’s device from a server, or generate them locally from your app.
### WatchKit
- [Interacting with Bluetooth peripherals during background app refresh](../WatchKit/interacting-with-bluetooth-peripherals-during-background-app-refresh.md)
  Keep your complications up-to-date by reading values from a Bluetooth peripheral while your app is running in the background.
### Accessibility
- [Audio graphs](../Accessibility/audio-graphs.md)
  Define an accessible representation of your chart for VoiceOver to generate an audio graph.
- [Hearing device support](../Accessibility/hearing-device-support.md)
  Access information about paired hearing aid devices and streaming status.
### Extensions
- [MailKit](../MailKit/MailKit.md)
  Secure, customize, and act on email messages that users send and receive.
- [Safari web extensions](../SafariServices/safari-web-extensions.md)
  Create web extensions that work in Safari and other browsers.
- [class EKVirtualConferenceProvider](../EventKit/EKVirtualConferenceProvider.md)
  An object that associates virtual conferencing details with an event object in a user’s calendar.
- [Network Extension](../NetworkExtension/NetworkExtension.md)
  Customize and extend core networking features.
### App Store
- [StoreKit](../StoreKit/StoreKit.md)
  Support In-App Purchases and interactions with the App Store.
- [In-App Purchase](../StoreKit/in-app-purchase.md)
  Offer content and services in your app across Apple platforms using a Swift-based interface.
- [struct Transaction](../StoreKit/Transaction.md)
  Information that represents the customer’s purchase of a product in your app.
- [App Store Connect API](../AppStoreConnectAPI/AppStoreConnectAPI.md)
  Automate the tasks you perform on the Apple Developer website and in App Store Connect.
- [App Store Server Notifications](../AppStoreServerNotifications/AppStoreServerNotifications.md)
  Monitor In-App Purchase events in real time and learn of unreported external purchase tokens, with server notifications from the App Store.
- [App Store Server API](../AppStoreServerAPI/AppStoreServerAPI.md)
  Manage your customers’ App Store transactions from your server.
### Graphics
- [Metal](../Metal/Metal.md)
  Render advanced 3D graphics and compute data in parallel with graphics processors.
- [Media Player](../MediaPlayer/MediaPlayer.md)
  Find and play songs, audio podcasts, audio books, and more from within your app.
- [class AVCaption](../AVFoundation/AVCaption.md)
  An object that represents text to present over a time range.
- [class AVCaptureDevice](../AVFoundation/AVCaptureDevice.md)
  An object that represents a hardware or virtual capture device like a camera or microphone.
- [Recording and Streaming Your macOS App](../ReplayKit/recording-and-streaming-your-macos-app.md)
  Share screen recordings, or broadcast live audio and video of your app, by adding ReplayKit to your macOS apps and games.
### Audio and Haptics
- [MusicKit](../MusicKit/MusicKit.md)
  Integrate your app with Apple Music.
- [AudioDriverKit](../AudioDriverKit/AudioDriverKit.md)
  Develop drivers for audio devices.
- [Classifying Live Audio Input with a Built-in Sound Classifier](../SoundAnalysis/classifying-live-audio-input-with-a-built-in-sound-classifier.md)
  Detect and identify hundreds of sounds by using a trained classifier.
- [Core Haptics](../CoreHaptics/CoreHaptics.md)
  Compose and play haptic patterns to customize your iOS app’s haptic feedback.
### Screen Time API
- [ManagedSettings](../ManagedSettings/ManagedSettings.md)
  Access and change settings with your app while maintaining user privacy and control.
- [ManagedSettingsUI](../ManagedSettingsUI/ManagedSettingsUI.md)
  Define and configure the appearance of shielding views.
- [DeviceActivity](../DeviceActivity/DeviceActivity.md)
  Monitor device activity with your app extension while maintaining user privacy.
- [Family Controls](../FamilyControls/FamilyControls.md)
  Authorize your app to provide parental controls on a device.
### AppKit
- [TextKit](../AppKit/textkit.md)
  Manage text storage and perform custom layout of text-based content in your app’s views.
### UIKit
- [class UISheetPresentationController](../UIKit/UISheetPresentationController.md)
  A presentation controller that manages the appearance and behavior of a sheet.
- [UIButton.Configuration](../UIKit/UIButton/Configuration-swift.struct.md)
  A configuration that specifies the appearance and behavior of a button and its contents.
- [func prepareForDisplay(completionHandler: (UIImage?) -> Void)](../UIKit/UIImage/prepareForDisplay(completionHandler:).md)
  Decodes an image asynchronously and provides a new one for display in views and animations.
- [func prepareThumbnail(of: CGSize, completionHandler: (UIImage?) -> Void)](../UIKit/UIImage/prepareThumbnail(of:completionHandler:).md)
  Creates a thumbnail image at the specified size asynchronously on a background thread.
- [CoreLocationUI](../CoreLocationUI/CoreLocationUI.md)
  Streamline access to users’ location data through a standard, secure UI.
- [enum UIBehavioralStyle](../UIKit/UIBehavioralStyle.md)
  Constants that indicate how a control behaves in apps built with Mac Catalyst.
- [UIApplicationSupportsPrintCommand](../BundleResources/Information-Property-List/UIApplicationSupportsPrintCommand.md)
  A Boolean value that indicates whether the app supports the Command-P keyboard shortcut.
- [UIApplicationSupportsTabbedSceneCollection](../BundleResources/Information-Property-List/UIApplicationSceneManifest/UIApplicationSupportsTabbedSceneCollection.md)
  A Boolean value indicating whether an app built with Mac Catalyst supports automatic tabbing mode.
- [var subtitle: String](../UIKit/UIScene/subtitle.md)
  A string that the app displays in the title bar of a window when running in macOS.
### Security and Privacy
- [Public-Private Key Authentication](../AuthenticationServices/public-private-key-authentication.md)
  Register and authenticate users with passkeys and security keys, without using passwords.
- [Customizing the notarization workflow](../Security/customizing-the-notarization-workflow.md)
  Notarize your app from the command line to handle special distribution cases.
- [class LAAuthenticationView](../LocalAuthenticationEmbeddedUI/LAAuthenticationView.md)
  A graphical representation of the state of biometric authentication.
- [Exposure Notification](../ExposureNotification/ExposureNotification.md)
  Implement a COVID-19 exposure notification system that protects user privacy.
### iCloud
- [Shared Records](../CloudKit/shared-records.md)
  Share one or more records with other iCloud users.
- [var encryptedValues: any CKRecordKeyValueSetting & Sendable](../CloudKit/CKRecord/encryptedValues.md)
  An object that manages the record’s encrypted key-value pairs.
- [Integrating a Text-Based Schema into Your Workflow](../CloudKit/integrating-a-text-based-schema-into-your-workflow.md)
  Define and update your schema with the CloudKit Schema Language.
### Core Data
- [class NSPersistentCloudKitContainer](../CoreData/NSPersistentCloudKitContainer.md)
  A container that encapsulates the Core Data stack in your app, and mirrors select persistent stores to a CloudKit private database.
- [var allowsCloudEncryption: Bool { get set }](../CoreData/NSAttributeDescription/allowsCloudEncryption.md)
  A Boolean value that determines whether to encrypt the attribute’s value.
- [class NSCoreDataCoreSpotlightDelegate](../CoreData/NSCoreDataCoreSpotlightDelegate.md)
  A set of methods that enable integration with Core Spotlight.
- [struct SectionedFetchRequest](../SwiftUI/SectionedFetchRequest.md)
  A property wrapper type that retrieves entities, grouped into sections, from a Core Data persistent store.
### Machine Learning
- [TabularData](../TabularData/TabularData.md)
  Import, organize, and prepare a table of data to train a machine learning model.
- [struct MLShapedArray](../CoreML/MLShapedArray.md)
  A machine learning collection type that stores scalar values in a multidimensional array.
- [Applying Matte Effects to People in Images and Video](../Vision/applying-matte-effects-to-people-in-images-and-video.md)
  Generate image masks for people automatically by using semantic person-segmentation.
- [class VNGeneratePersonSegmentationRequest](../Vision/VNGeneratePersonSegmentationRequest.md)
  An object that produces a matte image for a person it finds in the input image.
### Foundation
- [struct AttributedString](../Foundation/AttributedString.md)
  A value type for a string with associated attributes for portions of its text.
- [Data Formatting](../Foundation/data-formatting.md)
  Convert numbers, dates, measurements, and other values to and from locale-aware string representations.
- [struct Morphology](../Foundation/Morphology.md)
  A description of the grammatical properties of a string.
### Developer Tools
- [MetricKit](../MetricKit/MetricKit.md)
  Aggregate and analyze per-device reports on exception and crash diagnostics and on power and performance metrics.
### HealthKit
- [class HKVerifiableClinicalRecord](../HealthKit/HKVerifiableClinicalRecord.md)
  A sample that represents the contents of a SMART Health Card or EU Digital COVID Certificate.
### HomeKit
- [HomeKit](../HomeKit/HomeKit.md)
  Configure, control, and communicate with home automation accessories.
### Siri
- [SiriKit](../SiriKit/SiriKit.md)
  Empower users to interact with their devices through voice, intelligent suggestions, and personalized workflows.
### Games
- [GameKit](../GameKit/GameKit.md)
  Enable players to interact with friends, compare leaderboard ranks, earn achievements, and participate in multiplayer games.
- [Game Controller](../GameController/GameController.md)
  Support hardware game controllers in your game.
### Apple Pay
- [dictionary ApplePayLineItem {
	ApplePayLineItemType type;
	DOMString label;
	DOMString amount;
	ApplePayPaymentTiming paymentTiming;
	Date recurringPaymentStartDate;
	ApplePayRecurringPaymentDateUnit recurringPaymentIntervalUnit;
	long recurringPaymentIntervalCount;
	Date recurringPaymentEndDate;
	Date deferredPaymentDate;
	DOMString automaticReloadPaymentThresholdAmount;
};](../ApplePayontheWeb/ApplePayLineItem.md)
  A line item in a payment request—for example, total, tax, discount, or grand total.
- [boolean supportsCouponCode;](../ApplePayontheWeb/ApplePayPaymentRequest/supportsCouponCode.md)
  A Boolean value that determines whether the payment sheet displays the coupon code field.
- [DOMString couponCode;](../ApplePayontheWeb/ApplePayPaymentRequest/couponCode.md)
  The initial coupon code for the payment request.
- [ApplePayShippingContactEditingMode shippingContactEditingMode;](../ApplePayontheWeb/ApplePayPaymentRequest/shippingContactEditingMode.md)
  A value that indicates whether the shipping mode prevents the user from editing the shipping address.
- [attribute EventHandler oncouponcodechanged;](../ApplePayontheWeb/ApplePaySession/oncouponcodechanged.md)
  An event handler called by the system when the user enters or updates a coupon code.
- [boolean supportsCouponCode;](../ApplePayontheWeb/ApplePayRequest/supportsCouponCode.md)
  A Boolean value that determines whether the payment sheet displays the coupon code field.
- [DOMString couponCode;](../ApplePayontheWeb/ApplePayRequest/couponCode.md)
  The initial coupon code for the payment request.
- [ApplePayShippingContactEditingMode shippingContactEditingMode;](../ApplePayontheWeb/ApplePayRequest/shippingContactEditingMode.md)
  A value that indicates if the shipping mode prevents the user editing the shipping address.
- [interface PaymentMethodChangeEvent](../ApplePayontheWeb/PaymentMethodChangeEvent.md)
  The Apple Pay extensions to the Payment Request payment change event.
- [dictionary ApplePayModifier {
	ApplePayPaymentMethodType paymentMethodType;
	ApplePayLineItem total;
	sequence <ApplePayLineItem> additionalLineItems;
	sequence <ApplePayShippingMethod> additionalShippingMethods;
	sequence <ApplePayPaymentTokenContext> multiTokenContexts;
	ApplePayAutomaticReloadPaymentRequest automaticReloadPaymentRequest;
	ApplePayRecurringPaymentRequest recurringPaymentRequest;
	ApplePayDeferredPaymentRequest deferredPaymentRequest;
};](../ApplePayontheWeb/ApplePayModifier.md)
  A dictionary that defines the Apple Pay modifiers for a payment type in the W3C Payment Request API.
- [Offering Apple Pay in Your App](../PassKit/offering-apple-pay-in-your-app.md)
  Collect payments with iPhone and Apple Watch using Apple Pay.
- [class PKDeferredPaymentSummaryItem](../PassKit/PKDeferredPaymentSummaryItem.md)
  An object that defines a summary item for a payment that occurs at a later date, such as a pre-order.
- [class PKRecurringPaymentSummaryItem](../PassKit/PKRecurringPaymentSummaryItem.md)
  An object that defines a summary item for a payment that occurs repeatedly at a specified interval, such as a subscription.
- [var supportsCouponCode: Bool](../PassKit/PKPaymentRequest/supportsCouponCode.md)
  A Boolean value that determines whether the payment sheet displays the coupon code field.
- [var couponCode: String?](../PassKit/PKPaymentRequest/couponCode.md)
  The initial coupon code for the payment request.
- [protocol PKPaymentAuthorizationControllerDelegate](../PassKit/PKPaymentAuthorizationControllerDelegate.md)
  Methods that let you respond to user interactions with your payment authorization controller.
### Hardware
- [Nearby Interaction](../NearbyInteraction/NearbyInteraction.md)
  Locate and interact with nearby devices using identifiers, distance, and direction.
- [Hypervisor](../Hypervisor/Hypervisor.md)
  Build virtualization solutions on top of a lightweight hypervisor, without third-party kernel extensions.
- [SensorKit](../SensorKit/SensorKit.md)
  Retrieve data and derived metrics from sensors on an iPhone, or paired Apple Watch.
- [DriverKit sample code](../DriverKit/driverkit-sample-code.md)
  Explore projects that demonstrate how to write macOS device drivers with the DriverKit family of frameworks.
### ShazamKit
- [ShazamKit](../ShazamKit/ShazamKit.md)
  Find information about a specific audio recording when a segment of it’s part of captured sound in the Shazam catalog or your custom catalog.
### Photos
- [Delivering an Enhanced Privacy Experience in Your Photos App](../PhotoKit/delivering-an-enhanced-privacy-experience-in-your-photos-app.md)
  Adopt the latest privacy enhancements to deliver advanced user-privacy controls.
- [Selecting Photos and Videos in iOS](../PhotoKit/selecting-photos-and-videos-in-ios.md)
  Improve the user experience of finding and selecting assets by using the Photos picker.
- [struct PHPickerConfiguration](../PhotosUI/PHPickerConfiguration-swift.struct.md)
  An object that contains information about how to configure a picker view controller.
### Education
- [class AEAssessmentConfiguration](../AutomaticAssessmentConfiguration/AEAssessmentConfiguration.md)
  Configuration information for an assessment session.
### TVUIKit
- [TVUIKit](../TVUIKit/TVUIKit.md)
  Show common user interface elements from Apple TV in your native app.
### WidgetKit
- [Increasing the visibility of widgets in Smart Stacks](../WidgetKit/Widget-Suggestions-In-Smart-Stacks.md)
  Provide contextual information and donate intents to the system to make sure your widget appears prominently in Smart Stacks.

## See Also

- [WWDC25](wwdc2025.md)
  Highlights of new technologies introduced at WWDC25.
- [WWDC24](wwdc2024.md)
  Highlights of new technologies introduced at WWDC24.
- [WWDC23](wwdc2023.md)
  Highlights of new technologies introduced at WWDC23.
- [WWDC22](wwdc2022.md)
  Highlights of new technologies introduced at WWDC22.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/updates/wwdc2021)*