# WWDC25

**Framework**: Updates

Highlights of new technologies introduced at WWDC25.

#### Overview

Browse a selection of documentation for new technologies and frameworks introduced at WWDC25. Many existing frameworks have added significant functionality to enhance your apps when run on the latest platform releases.

For a comprehensive list of downloadable sample code projects, see [`WWDC25 Sample Code`](https://developer.apple.comhttps://developer.apple.com/documentation/samplecode/). To tour the frameworks and tools for Apple platforms, browse [`Technology Overviews`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/TechnologyOverviews). For the latest design guidance, see [`Human Interface Guidelines > What’s New`](https://developer.apple.comhttps://developer.apple.com/design/whats-new/).

## Topics

### Accessibility
- [Accessibility](../Accessibility/Accessibility.md)
  Make your apps accessible to everyone who uses Apple devices.
### App services
- [PaperKit](../PaperKit/PaperKit.md)
  Add drawings, shapes, and a consistent markup experience to your app.
- [EnergyKit](../EnergyKit/EnergyKit.md)
  Provide a grid forecast for your app to help people choose when to use electricity.
- [Performing long-running tasks on iOS and iPadOS](../BackgroundTasks/performing-long-running-tasks-on-ios-and-ipados.md)
  Use a continuous background task to do work that can complete as needed.
- [final actor SpeechAnalyzer](../Speech/SpeechAnalyzer.md)
  Analyzes spoken audio content in various ways and manages the analysis session.
- [Creating custom views for Live Activities](../ActivityKit/creating-custom-views-for-live-activities.md)
  Create reusable custom views and layouts that support each Live Activity presentation.
- [Launching your app from a Live Activity](../ActivityKit/launching-your-app-from-a-live-activity.md)
  Use deep links to enable people to open your app’s scene that matches the data of you Live Activity.
- [Configuring App Clip experiences](../AppClip/configuring-the-launch-experience-of-your-app-clip.md)
  Review how people launch your App Clip with invocation URLs, default and demo links, and advanced App Clip experiences.
### App Store distribution and marketing
- [Understanding StoreKit workflows](../StoreKit/understanding-storekit-workflows.md)
  Implement an in-app store with several product types, using StoreKit views.
- [Configuring your Background Assets project](../BackgroundAssets/configuring-background-assets.md)
  Edit your app and extension targets in your Xcode project to use Background Assets.
- [Background Assets](../BackgroundAssets/BackgroundAssets.md)
  Schedule background downloads of large assets during or after app installation, when the app updates, and periodically while the app remains on-device.
- [Configuring attribution rules for your app](../AdAttributionKit/configuring-attribution-rules-for-your-app.md)
  Tune aspects of attribution flow, including the time available to register impressions and the minimum time your app is willing to accept conversions.
- [Identifying the parameters in a postback](../AdAttributionKit/identifying-the-parameters-in-a-postback.md)
  Interpret postback properties to understand the attribution report.
- [Receiving postbacks in multiple conversion windows](../AdAttributionKit/receiving-postbacks-in-multiple-conversion-windows.md)
  Learn about the data that postbacks can contain in each conversion window.
### Apple Intelligence and machine learning
- [Apple Intelligence and machine learning](../TechnologyOverviews/ai-machine-learning.md)
  Add intelligent features with Apple Intelligence, machine learning, and related technologies.
- [Foundation Models](../FoundationModels/FoundationModels.md)
  Perform tasks with the on-device model that specializes in language understanding, structured output, and tool calling.
- [Improving safety from generative model output](../FoundationModels/improving-safety-from-generative-model-output.md)
  Create generative experiences that appropriately handle sensitive inputs and respect people.
- [Integrating actions with Siri and Apple Intelligence](../AppIntents/Integrating-actions-with-siri-and-apple-intelligence.md)
  Create app intents, entities, and enumerations that conform to assistant schemas to tap into the enhanced action capabilities of Siri and Apple Intelligence.
- [Displaying static and interactive snippets](../AppIntents/displaying-static-and-interactive-snippets.md)
  Enable people to view the outcome of an app intent and immediately perform follow-up actions.
- [Making app entities available in Spotlight](../AppIntents/making-app-entities-available-in-spotlight.md)
  Allow people to find your app’s content in Spotlight by donating app entities to its semantic index.
- [Generating content and performing tasks with Foundation Models](../FoundationModels/generating-content-and-performing-tasks-with-foundation-models.md)
  Enhance the experience in your app by prompting an on-device large language model.
- [Visual Intelligence](../VisualIntelligence/VisualIntelligence.md)
  Include your app’s content in search results that visual intelligence provides.
- [Integrating your app with visual intelligence](../VisualIntelligence/integrating-your-app-with-visual-intelligence.md)
  Enable people to find app content that matches their surroundings or objects onscreen with visual intelligence.
- [Recognizing tables within a document](../Vision/recognize-tables-within-a-document.md)
  Scan a document containing a contact table and extract the content within the table in a formatted way.
- [struct DetectLensSmudgeRequest](../Vision/DetectLensSmudgeRequest.md)
  A request that detects a smudge on a lens from an image or video frame capture.
### Apple Pay and Wallet
- [Implementing as an identity document provider](../IdentityDocumentServices/Implenting-as-an-identity-document-provider.md)
  Add your app as an option for mobile document web presentment.
- [IdentityDocumentServices](../IdentityDocumentServices/IdentityDocumentServices.md)
  Share mobile documents using the Digital Credentials API.
- [IdentityDocumentServicesUI](../IdentityDocumentServicesUI/IdentityDocumentServicesUI.md)
  Provide an interface so people can present mobile documents.
- [Setting up Tap to Pay on iPhone](../ProximityReader/setting-up-the-entitlement-for-tap-to-pay-on-iPhone.md)
  Request and configure the required entitlement to support Tap to Pay on iPhone.
### Audio, Video, and Media
- [Signing people in to their media accounts automatically](../VideoSubscriberAccount/signing-people-in-to-media-apps-automatically.md)
  Implement single sign-on for media-streaming apps by managing a sign-in token on a person’s Apple Account.
- [Video Subscriber Account](../VideoSubscriberAccount/VideoSubscriberAccount.md)
  Support TV provider and Apple TV app functionality.
- [Automatic Sign-In API](../AutomaticSignInAPI/AutomaticSignInAPI.md)
  Manage sign-in tokens that facilitate single sign-on across the devices of your media streaming service customers from your web server.
- [Capturing Spatial Audio in your iOS app](../AVFoundation/capturing-spatial-audio-in-your-ios-app.md)
  Enhance your app’s audio recording capabilities by supporting Spatial Audio capture.
- [Editing Spatial Audio with an audio mix](../Cinematic/editing-spatial-audio-with-an-audio-mix.md)
  Add Spatial Audio editing capabilities with the Audio Mix API in the Cinematic framework.
- [Enhancing your app with machine learning-based video effects](../VideoToolbox/enhancing-your-app-with-machine-learning-based-video-effects.md)
  Add powerful effects to your videos using the VideoToolbox VTFrameProcessor API.
- [Observing playback state in SwiftUI](../AVFoundation/observing-playback-state-in-swiftui.md)
  Keep your user interface in sync with state changes from playback objects.
- [Anchoring sound to a window or volume](../AudioToolbox/spatializing-sound-from-a-uiscene.md)
  Provide unique app experiences by attaching sounds to windows and volumes in 3D space.
- [Creating a seamless multiview playback experience](../AVFoundation/creating-a-seamless-multiview-playback-experience.md)
  Build advanced multiview playback experiences with the AVFoundation and AVRouting frameworks.
### Developer tools
- [Creating your app icon using Icon Composer](../Xcode/creating-your-app-icon-using-icon-composer.md)
  Use Icon Composer to stylize your app icon for different platforms and appearances.
- [Writing code with intelligence in Xcode](../Xcode/writing-code-with-intelligence-in-xcode.md)
  Generate code, fix bugs fast, and learn as you go with intelligence built directly into Xcode.
- [Running code snippets using the playground macro](../Xcode/running-code-snippets-using-the-playground-macro.md)
  Add playgrounds to your code that run and display results in the canvas.
- [Understanding and improving SwiftUI performance](../Xcode/understanding-and-improving-swiftui-performance.md)
  Identify and address long-running view updates, and reduce the frequency of updates.
- [Analyzing the performance of your shipping app](../Xcode/analyzing-the-performance-of-your-shipping-app.md)
  View power and performance metrics for apps you distribute through the App Store.
- [Recording UI automation for testing](../XCUIAutomation/recording-ui-automation-for-testing.md)
  Capture and replay interaction sequences to verify your app’s behavior.
- [Downloading and installing additional Xcode components](../Xcode/downloading-and-installing-additional-xcode-components.md)
  Add more Simulator runtimes, optional features, and support for additional platforms.
- [Measuring your app’s power use with Power Profiler](../Xcode/measuring-your-app-s-power-use-with-power-profiler.md)
  Profile your app’s power impact whether or not your device is connected to Xcode.
### Graphics and games
- [Game technologies](../TechnologyOverviews/games-technologies.md)
  Plan the creation of your game and incorporate the gameplay features people expect.
- [GameSave](../GameSave/GameSave.md)
  Store and sync your application’s save files in iCloud.
- [Touch Controls](../TouchControls/TouchControls.md)
  Integrate on-screen touch controls into your Metal-based games.
- [Discovering and tracking spatial game controllers and styli](../GameController/discovering-and-tracking-spatial-game-controllers-and-styli.md)
  Receive controller and stylus input to interact with content in your augmented reality app.
- [Creating activities for your game](../GameKit/creating-activities-for-your-game.md)
  Use activities to surface game content to players and encourage them to connect with each other.
- [class GKGameActivity](../GameKit/GKGameActivity.md)
  An object that represents a single instance of a game activity for the current game.
- [Choosing a leaderboard for your challenges](../GameKit/choosing-a-leaderboard-for-your-challenges.md)
  Understand what gameplay works well when configuring challenges in your game.
- [Creating engaging challenges from leaderboards](../GameKit/creating-engaging-challenges-from-leaderboards.md)
  Encourage friendly competition by adding challenges to your game.
- [Building your macOS game remotely from your PC](../TechnologyOverviews/building-your-macos-game-remotely-from-your-pc.md)
  Configure a Mac for remote builds, and use it to build your game from your PC and catch mistakes when porting your game to macOS.
### Maps and location
- [GeoToolbox](../GeoToolbox/GeoToolbox.md)
  Determine place descriptor information for map coordinates.
- [struct PlaceDescriptor](../GeoToolbox/PlaceDescriptor.md)
  A structure that contains identifying information about a place that a mapping service may use to attempt to find rich place information such as phone numbers, websites, and so on.
- [interface mapkit.LookAround](../MapKitJS/mapkit.LookAround.md)
  A view that allows someone to see a street level view of a place.
- [interface mapkit.LookAroundPreview](../MapKitJS/mapkit.LookAroundPreview.md)
  A class that renders a preview of a LookAround view.
### Metal
- [Understanding the Metal 4 core API](../Metal/understanding-the-metal-4-core-api.md)
  Discover the features and functionality in the Metal 4 foundational APIs.
- [Using the Metal 4 compilation API](../Metal/using-the-metal-4-compilation-api.md)
  Control when and how you compile an app’s shaders.
- [Using a Render Pipeline to Render Primitives](../Metal/using-a-render-pipeline-to-render-primitives.md)
  Render a colorful, 2D triangle by running a draw command on the GPU.
- [Processing a texture in a compute function](../Metal/processing-a-texture-in-a-compute-function.md)
  Create textures by running copy and dispatch commands in a compute pass on a GPU.
- [Machine-Learning Passes](../Metal/machine-learning-passes.md)
  Add machine-learning model inference to your Metal app’s GPU workflow.
- [Resource Synchronization](../Metal/resource-synchronization.md)
  Prevent multiple commands that can access the same resources simultaneously by coordinating those accesses with barriers, fences, or events.
- [Synchronizing resource accesses within a single pass with an intrapass barrier](../Metal/synchronizing-resource-accesses-within-a-single-pass-with-an-intrapass-barrier.md)
  Resolve resource access conflicts between stages within a single pass by adding an intrapass barrier.
- [Synchronizing resource accesses between multiple passes with a fence](../Metal/synchronizing-resource-accesses-between-multiple-passes-with-a-fence.md)
  Resolve resource access conflicts between multiple passes within a single command queue by signaling a fence in one pass and waiting for it in another.
- [Synchronizing resource accesses with earlier passes with a consumer-based queue barrier](../Metal/synchronizing-resource-accesses-with-earlier-passes-with-a-consumer-based-queue-barrier.md)
  Resolve resource access conflicts between multiple passes within a single command queue by creating a consumer-based intraqueue barrier.
- [Synchronizing resource accesses with subsequent passes with a producer-based queue barrier](../Metal/synchronizing-resource-accesses-with-subsequent-passes-with-a-producer-based-queue-barrier.md)
  Resolve resource access conflicts between multiple passes within a single command queue by creating a producer-based intraqueue barrier.
### Parental controls and safety
- [PermissionKit](../PermissionKit/PermissionKit.md)
  Create communication experiences between a child and their parent or guardian.
- [DeclaredAgeRange](../DeclaredAgeRange/DeclaredAgeRange.md)
  Create age-appropriate experiences in your app by asking people to share their age range.
- [class SCVideoStreamAnalyzer](../SensitiveContentAnalysis/SCVideoStreamAnalyzer.md)
  An object that monitors a stream of video by analyzing frames for sensitive content.
### Security and privacy
- [Enabling enhanced security for your app](../Xcode/enabling-enhanced-security-for-your-app.md)
  Detect out-of-bounds memory access, use of freed memory, and other potential vulnerabilities.
- [Creating extensions with enhanced security](../Xcode/creating-extensions-with-enhanced-security.md)
  Reduce opportunities for an attacker to target your app through its extensions.
### Spatial computing with visionOS
- [Immersive Media Support](../ImmersiveMediaSupport/ImmersiveMediaSupport.md)
  Read and write essential Apple Immersive Video metadata.
- [Authoring Apple Immersive Video](../ImmersiveMediaSupport/authoring-apple-immersive-video.md)
  Prepare and package immersive video content for delivery.
- [Adopting best practices for persistent UI](../visionOS/adopting-best-practices-for-scene-restoration.md)
  Create persistent and contextually relevant spatial experiences by managing scene restoration, customizing window behaviors, and surface snapping data.
- [Presenting images in RealityKit](../RealityKit/presenting-images-in-realitykit.md)
  Create and display spatial scenes in RealityKit.
- [Tracking accessories in volumetric windows](../ARKit/tracking-accessories-in-volumetric-windows.md)
  Translate the position and velocity of tracked handheld accessories to throw virtual balls at a stack of cans.
- [Configure your visionOS app for sharing with people nearby](../GroupActivities/configure-your-app-for-sharing-with-people-nearby.md)
  Create shared experiences for people wearing Vision Pro in the same room and those on FaceTime.
### SwiftUI, UIKit, and AppKit
- [Liquid Glass](../TechnologyOverviews/liquid-glass.md)
  Learn how to design and develop beautiful interfaces that leverage Liquid Glass.
- [Adopting Liquid Glass](../TechnologyOverviews/adopting-liquid-glass.md)
  Find out how to bring the new material to your app.
- [Landmarks: Building an app with Liquid Glass](../SwiftUI/Landmarks-Building-an-app-with-Liquid-Glass.md)
  Enhance your app experience with system-provided and custom Liquid Glass.
- [Landmarks: Displaying custom activity badges](../SwiftUI/Landmarks-Displaying-custom-activity-badges.md)
  Provide people with a way to mark their adventures by displaying animated custom activity badges.
- [Landmarks: Refining the system provided glass effect in toolbars](../SwiftUI/Landmarks-Refining-the-system-provided-glass-effect-in-toolbars.md)
  Organize toolbars into related groups to improve their appearance and utility.
- [Landmarks: Extending horizontal scrolling under a sidebar or inspector](../SwiftUI/Landmarks-Extending-horizontal-scrolling-under-a-sidebar-or-inspector.md)
  Improve your horizontal scrollbar’s appearance by extending it under a sidebar or inspector.
- [Applying Liquid Glass to custom views](../SwiftUI/Applying-Liquid-Glass-to-custom-views.md)
  Configure, combine, and morph views using Liquid Glass effects.
- [Building and customizing the menu bar with SwiftUI](../SwiftUI/Building-and-customizing-the-menu-bar-with-SwiftUI.md)
  Provide a seamless, cross-platform user experience by building a native menu bar for iPadOS and macOS.
- [Populating SwiftUI menus with adaptive controls](../SwiftUI/Populating-SwiftUI-menus-with-adaptive-controls.md)
  Improve your app by populating menus with controls and organizing your content intuitively.
- [Building rich SwiftUI text experiences](../SwiftUI/building-rich-swiftui-text-experiences.md)
  Build an editor for formatted text using SwiftUI text editor views and attributed strings.
### System services
- [Wi-Fi Aware](../WiFiAware/WiFiAware.md)
  Securely pair and connect to external devices over peer-to-peer Wi-Fi.
- [Connecting devices for peer-to-peer Wi-Fi](../Wi-Fi-Aware/Connecting-paired-devices.md)
  Make outgoing and accept incoming secure connections with paired devices.
- [Building peer-to-peer apps](../Wi-Fi-Aware/Building-peer-to-peer-apps.md)
  Communicate with nearby devices over a secure, high-throughput, low-latency connection by using Wi-Fi Aware.
- [Adopting Wi-Fi Aware](../Wi-Fi-Aware/Adopting-Wi-Fi-Aware.md)
  Add entitlements and declare your app’s services.
- [AlarmKit](../AlarmKit/AlarmKit.md)
  Schedule prominent alarms and countdowns to help people manage their time.
- [WirelessInsights](../WirelessInsights/WirelessInsights.md)
  Receive notifications for anticipated changes in cellular data service conditions.
- [RelevanceKit](../RelevanceKit/RelevanceKit.md)
  Provide on-device intelligence with contextual clues that increase your widget’s visibility on Apple Watch.
- [TelephonyMessagingKit](../TelephonyMessagingKit/TelephonyMessagingKit.md)
  Send and receive standards-based messages over cellular networks.

## See Also

- [WWDC24](wwdc2024.md)
  Highlights of new technologies introduced at WWDC24.
- [WWDC23](wwdc2023.md)
  Highlights of new technologies introduced at WWDC23.
- [WWDC22](wwdc2022.md)
  Highlights of new technologies introduced at WWDC22.
- [WWDC21](wwdc2021.md)
  Highlights of new technologies introduced at WWDC21.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/updates/wwdc2025)*