# SHA256

**Framework**: Apple CryptoKit  
**Kind**: struct

An implementation of Secure Hashing Algorithm 2 (SHA-2) hashing with a 256-bit digest.

**Availability**:
- iOS 13.0+
- iPadOS 13.0+
- Mac Catalyst 13.0+
- macOS 10.15+
- tvOS 13.0+
- visionOS 1.0+
- watchOS 6.0+

## Declaration

```swift
struct SHA256
```

#### Overview

The [`SHA256`](sha256.md) hash implements the [`HashFunction`](hashfunction.md) protocol for the specific case of SHA-2 hashing with a 256-bit digest ([`SHA256Digest`](sha256digest.md)). Larger digests take more space but are more secure.

You can compute the digest by calling the static `hash(data:)` method once. Alternatively, if the data that you want to hash is too large to fit in memory, you can compute the digest iteratively by creating a new hash instance, calling the `update(data:)` method repeatedly with blocks of data, and then calling the [`finalize()`](sha256/finalize().md) method to get the result.

## Topics

### Specifying the output type
- [typealias Digest](sha256/digest.md)
  The digest type for a SHA256 hash function.
- [struct SHA256Digest](sha256digest.md)
  The output of a Secure Hashing Algorithm 2 (SHA-2) hash with a 256-bit digest.
### Computing a hash iteratively
- [init()](sha256/init.md)
  Creates a SHA256 hash function.
- [func update(bufferPointer: UnsafeRawBufferPointer)](sha256/update(bufferpointer:).md)
  Incrementally updates the hash function with the contents of the buffer.
- [func finalize() -> SHA256.Digest](sha256/finalize.md)
  Finalizes the hash function and returns the computed digest.
### Inspecting hash information
- [static let byteCount: Int](sha256/bytecount.md)
  The number of bytes in a SHA256 digest.
- [static let blockByteCount: Int](sha256/blockbytecount.md)
  The number of bytes that represents the hash function’s internal state.

## Relationships

### Conforms To
- [Copyable](../Swift/Copyable.md)
- [HashFunction](hashfunction.md)
- [Sendable](../Swift/Sendable.md)

## See Also

- [protocol HashFunction](hashfunction.md)
  A type that performs cryptographically secure hashing.
- [struct SHA512](sha512.md)
  An implementation of Secure Hashing Algorithm 2 (SHA-2) hashing with a 512-bit digest.
- [struct SHA384](sha384.md)
  An implementation of Secure Hashing Algorithm 2 (SHA-2) hashing with a 384-bit digest.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/cryptokit/sha256)*