# SHA3_512

**Framework**: Apple CryptoKit  
**Kind**: struct

An implementation of Secure Hashing Algorithm 3 (SHA-3) hashing with a 512-bit digest.

**Availability**:
- iOS 26.0+ (Beta)
- iPadOS 26.0+ (Beta)
- Mac Catalyst 26.0+ (Beta)
- macOS 26.0+ (Beta)
- tvOS 26.0+ (Beta)
- visionOS 2.0+
- watchOS 26.0+ (Beta)

## Declaration

```swift
struct SHA3_512
```

#### Overview

The [`SHA3_512`](sha3_512.md) hash implements the [`HashFunction`](hashfunction.md) protocol for the specific case of SHA-3 hashing with a 512-bit digest ([`SHA3_512Digest`](sha3_512digest.md)). Larger digests take more space but are more secure.

Applications can compute the digest by calling the static `hash(data:)` method once. Alternatively, if the data to hash is too large to fit in memory, applications can compute the digest iteratively by creating a new hash instance, calling the `update(data:)` method repeatedly with blocks of data, and then calling the [`finalize()`](sha3_512/finalize().md) method to get the result.

## Topics

### Initializers
- [init()](sha3_512/init.md)
  Creates a SHA3-512 hash function.
### Instance Methods
- [func finalize() -> SHA3_512.Digest](sha3_512/finalize.md)
  Finalizes the hash function and returns the computed digest.
- [func update(bufferPointer: UnsafeRawBufferPointer)](sha3_512/update(bufferpointer:).md)
  Incrementally updates the hash function with the contents of the buffer.
### Type Aliases
- [typealias Digest](sha3_512/digest.md)
  The digest type for a SHA3-512 hash function.
### Type Properties
- [static let blockByteCount: Int](sha3_512/blockbytecount.md)
  The number of bytes that represents the hash function’s internal state.
- [static let byteCount: Int](sha3_512/bytecount.md)
  The number of bytes in a SHA3-512 digest.

## Relationships

### Conforms To
- [Copyable](../Swift/Copyable.md)
- [HashFunction](hashfunction.md)
- [Sendable](../Swift/Sendable.md)
- [SendableMetatype](../Swift/SendableMetatype.md)


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/cryptokit/sha3_512)*