# free

**Framework**: Kernel  
**Kind**: instm

## Declaration

```swift
virtual void free();
```

#### Overview

Mandatory free of the object independent of the current retain count. If the work loop is running, this method will not return until the thread has successfully terminated. Each event source in the chain will be released and the working semaphore will be destroyed.

If the client has some outstanding requests on an event they will never be informed of completion. If an external thread is blocked on any of the event sources they will be awakened with a KERN_INTERUPTED status.

## See Also

- [_maintRequest](ioworkloop/1809377-_maintrequest.md)
  Synchronous implementation of addEventSource and removeEventSource functions.
- [addEventSource](ioworkloop/1809383-addeventsource.md)
- [disableAllEventSources](ioworkloop/1809388-disablealleventsources.md)
  Calls disable() in all event sources.
- [disableAllInterrupts](ioworkloop/1809396-disableallinterrupts.md)
  Calls disable() in all interrupt event sources.
- [enableAllEventSources](ioworkloop/1809401-enablealleventsources.md)
  Calls enable() in all event sources.
- [enableAllInterrupts](ioworkloop/1809404-enableallinterrupts.md)
  Calls enable() in all interrupt event sources.
- [eventSourcePerformsWork](ioworkloop/1809410-eventsourceperformswork.md)
  Checks if the event source passed in overrides checkForWork() to perform any work. IOWorkLoop uses this to determine if the event source should be polled in runEventSources() or not.
- [getThread](ioworkloop/1809425-getthread.md)
  Gets the workThread.
- [inGate](ioworkloop/1809434-ingate.md)
  Is the current execution context holding the work-loop's gate?
- [init](ioworkloop/1809441-init.md)
- [onThread](ioworkloop/1809446-onthread.md)
  Is the current execution context on the work thread?
- [removeEventSource](ioworkloop/1809449-removeeventsource.md)
- [runAction](ioworkloop/1809454-runaction.md)
  Single thread a call to an action with the work-loop.
- [runEventSources](ioworkloop/1809459-runeventsources.md)
- [threadMain](ioworkloop/1809465-threadmain.md)
- [threadMainContinuation](ioworkloop/1809470-threadmaincontinuation.md)
  Static function that calls the threadMain function.
- [workLoop](ioworkloop/1809476-workloop.md)
  Factory member function to construct and intialize a work loop.
- [workLoopWithOptions](ioworkloop/1809483-workloopwithoptions.md)
  Factory member function to constuct and intialize a work loop.
- [workLoopWithOptions(IOOptionBits options)](ioworkloop/1809488-workloopwithoptions.md)
  Factory member function to constuct and intialize a work loop.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/kernel/ioworkloop/1809418-free)*