# absoluteY

**Framework**: AppKit  
**Kind**: property

The absolute y coordinate of a pointing device on its tablet at full tablet resolution.

**Availability**:
- macOS ?+

## Declaration

```swift
var absoluteY: Int { get }
```

#### Discussion

For the coordinate to be valid, this event must be generated by a tablet pointing device (otherwise the property is set to `0`). This property is valid only for mouse events with a subtype of `NSTabletPointEventSubtype` and for events of type `NSTabletPoint`. Use this value if you want to scale from tablet location to screen location yourself; otherwise use the class method [`mouseLocation`](nsevent/mouselocation.md) or the instance method [`locationInWindow`](nsevent/locationinwindow.md).

## See Also

- [var absoluteX: Int](nsevent/absolutex.md)
  The absolute x coordinate of a pointing device on its tablet at full tablet resolution.
- [var absoluteZ: Int](nsevent/absolutez.md)
  The absolute z coordinate of pointing device on its tablet at full tablet resolution.
- [var buttonMask: NSEvent.ButtonMask](nsevent/buttonmask-swift.property.md)
  A bit mask identifying the buttons pressed for a tablet event.
- [NSEvent.ButtonMask](nsevent/buttonmask-swift.struct.md)
  Constants you use to identify the activated tablet buttons in an event.
- [var rotation: Float](nsevent/rotation.md)
  The rotation in degrees of the tablet pointing device associated with this event.
- [var tangentialPressure: Float](nsevent/tangentialpressure.md)
  The tangential pressure on the device that generated this event.
- [var tilt: NSPoint](nsevent/tilt.md)
  The scaled tilt values of the pointing device that generated this event.
- [var vendorDefined: Any](nsevent/vendordefined.md)
  An array of three vendor-defined number objects associated with a pointing-type event.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appkit/nsevent/absolutey)*