# characters(byApplyingModifiers:)

**Framework**: AppKit  
**Kind**: method

Returns the new characters that result if you apply the specified modifier keys to the event.

**Availability**:
- macOS 10.15+

## Declaration

```swift
func characters(byApplyingModifiers modifiers: NSEvent.ModifierFlags) -> String?
```

#### Return Value

The characters that result from the application of the specified modifier keys. If the event contains invalid data, this method returns `nil`.

#### Discussion

Call this method to determine what characters occur if you apply the specified modifier keys to this event. This method doesn’t modify the event itself, but returns a translation of the event’s data that replaces the existing modifier keys with the new ones you specify. Cal this method only for an event of type [`NSEvent.EventType.keyUp`](nsevent/eventtype/keyup.md) or [`NSEvent.EventType.keyDown`](nsevent/eventtype/keydown.md).

## Parameters

- `modifiers`: The modifier keys you want to apply to the event’s characters. These modifiers completely replace the existing modifiers in the event.

## See Also

- [var characters: String?](nsevent/characters.md)
  The characters associated with a key-up or key-down event.
- [var charactersIgnoringModifiers: String?](nsevent/charactersignoringmodifiers.md)
  The characters generated by a key event as if no modifier key (except for Shift) applies.
- [var keyCode: UInt16](nsevent/keycode.md)
  The virtual code for the key associated with the event.
- [class var keyRepeatDelay: TimeInterval](nsevent/keyrepeatdelay.md)
  The number of seconds someone must hold down a key before the first key repeat event occurs.
- [class var keyRepeatInterval: TimeInterval](nsevent/keyrepeatinterval.md)
  The number of seconds someone must hold down a key to generate key-repeat events after the initial delay.
- [var specialKey: NSEvent.SpecialKey?](nsevent/specialkey-swift.property.md)
  The code associated with a function key or other special key.
- [Function-Key Unicode Values](function-key-unicode-values.md)
  Constants for reserved keyboard function keys that correspond to unicode characters.
- [NSEvent.SpecialKey](nsevent/specialkey-swift.struct.md)
  Constants for reserved function keys on the keyboard.
- [var isARepeat: Bool](nsevent/isarepeat.md)
  A Boolean value that indicates whether the key event is a repeat.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appkit/nsevent/characters(byapplyingmodifiers:))*