# isARepeat

**Framework**: AppKit  
**Kind**: property

A Boolean value that indicates whether the key event is a repeat.

**Availability**:
- macOS ?+

## Declaration

```swift
var isARepeat: Bool { get }
```

#### Discussion

Contains [`true`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/swift/true) if the key event is a repeat caused by the user holding the key down; otherwise, [`false`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/swift/false). Raises an `NSInternalInconsistencyException` if sent to an `NSFlagsChanged` event or other non-key event.

## See Also

- [class func keyEvent(with: NSEvent.EventType, location: NSPoint, modifierFlags: NSEvent.ModifierFlags, timestamp: TimeInterval, windowNumber: Int, context: NSGraphicsContext?, characters: String, charactersIgnoringModifiers: String, isARepeat: Bool, keyCode: UInt16) -> NSEvent?](nsevent/keyevent(with:location:modifierflags:timestamp:windownumber:context:characters:charactersignoringmodifiers:isarepeat:keycode:).md)
  Creates and returns a new event object that describes a key event.
- [var characters: String?](nsevent/characters.md)
  The characters associated with a key-up or key-down event.
- [var charactersIgnoringModifiers: String?](nsevent/charactersignoringmodifiers.md)
  The characters generated by a key event as if no modifier key (except for Shift) applies.
- [var keyCode: UInt16](nsevent/keycode.md)
  The virtual code for the key associated with the event.
- [func characters(byApplyingModifiers: NSEvent.ModifierFlags) -> String?](nsevent/characters(byapplyingmodifiers:).md)
  Returns the new characters that result if you apply the specified modifier keys to the event.
- [class var keyRepeatDelay: TimeInterval](nsevent/keyrepeatdelay.md)
  The number of seconds someone must hold down a key before the first key repeat event occurs.
- [class var keyRepeatInterval: TimeInterval](nsevent/keyrepeatinterval.md)
  The number of seconds someone must hold down a key to generate key-repeat events after the initial delay.
- [var specialKey: NSEvent.SpecialKey?](nsevent/specialkey-swift.property.md)
  The code associated with a function key or other special key.
- [Function-Key Unicode Values](function-key-unicode-values.md)
  Constants for reserved keyboard function keys that correspond to unicode characters.
- [NSEvent.SpecialKey](nsevent/specialkey-swift.struct.md)
  Constants for reserved function keys on the keyboard.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appkit/nsevent/isarepeat)*