# Result Codes

**Framework**: Core Video

Describes the result codes generated by Core Video operations.

## Topics

### Common
- [var kCVReturnAllocationFailed: CVReturn](kcvreturnallocationfailed.md)
  Memory allocation for a buffer or buffer pool failed.
- [var kCVReturnError: CVReturn](kcvreturnerror.md)
  An otherwise undefined error occurred.
- [var kCVReturnInvalidArgument: CVReturn](kcvreturninvalidargument.md)
  Invalid function parameter. For example, out of range or the wrong type.
- [var kCVReturnSuccess: CVReturn](kcvreturnsuccess.md)
  Indicates the operation completed successfully.
- [var kCVReturnUnsupported: CVReturn](kcvreturnunsupported.md)
- [var kCVReturnLast: CVReturn](kcvreturnlast.md)
  Placeholder to mark the end of Core Video result codes (not returned by any functions).
- [var kCVReturnFirst: CVReturn](kcvreturnfirst.md)
  Placeholder to mark the beginning of Core Video result codes (not returned by any functions).
### Pixel Buffer
- [var kCVReturnInvalidPixelBufferAttributes: CVReturn](kcvreturninvalidpixelbufferattributes.md)
  A buffer cannot be created with the specified attributes.
- [var kCVReturnInvalidPixelFormat: CVReturn](kcvreturninvalidpixelformat.md)
  The buffer does not support the specified pixel format.
- [var kCVReturnInvalidSize: CVReturn](kcvreturninvalidsize.md)
  The buffer cannot support the requested buffer size (usually too big).
- [var kCVReturnPixelBufferNotMetalCompatible: CVReturn](kcvreturnpixelbuffernotmetalcompatible.md)
  The pixel buffer is not compatible with Metal due to an unsupported buffer size, pixel format, or attribute.
- [var kCVReturnPixelBufferNotOpenGLCompatible: CVReturn](kcvreturnpixelbuffernotopenglcompatible.md)
  The pixel buffer is not compatible with OpenGL due to an unsupported buffer size, pixel format, or attribute.
### Buffer Pool
- [var kCVReturnRetry: CVReturn](kcvreturnretry.md)
  A scan hasn’t completely traversed the `CVBufferPool` due to a concurrent operation.
- [var kCVReturnInvalidPoolAttributes: CVReturn](kcvreturninvalidpoolattributes.md)
  A buffer pool cannot be created with the specified attributes.
- [var kCVReturnPoolAllocationFailed: CVReturn](kcvreturnpoolallocationfailed.md)
  Allocation for a buffer pool failed, most likely due to a lack of resources. Check to make sure your parameters are in range.
- [var kCVReturnWouldExceedAllocationThreshold: CVReturn](kcvreturnwouldexceedallocationthreshold.md)
  Allocation for a pixel buffer failed because the threshold value set for the [`kCVPixelBufferPoolAllocationThresholdKey`](kcvpixelbufferpoolallocationthresholdkey.md) key in the [`CVPixelBufferPoolCreatePixelBufferWithAuxAttributes(_:_:_:_:)`](cvpixelbufferpoolcreatepixelbufferwithauxattributes(_:_:_:_:).md) function would be surpassed.
### Display Link
- [var kCVReturnInvalidDisplay: CVReturn](kcvreturninvaliddisplay.md)
  The display specified when creating a display link is invalid.
- [var kCVReturnDisplayLinkAlreadyRunning: CVReturn](kcvreturndisplaylinkalreadyrunning.md)
  The specified display link is already running.
- [var kCVReturnDisplayLinkNotRunning: CVReturn](kcvreturndisplaylinknotrunning.md)
  The specified display link is not running.
- [var kCVReturnDisplayLinkCallbacksNotSet: CVReturn](kcvreturndisplaylinkcallbacksnotset.md)
  No callback registered for the specified display link. You must set either the output callback or both the render and display callbacks.

## See Also

- [Data Types](data-types.md)
  Common data types used by the Core Video framework.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/corevideo/result-codes)*