# Create

**Framework**: Kernel  
**Kind**: clm

Creates a new action object and configures it with your custom target object and callback method. 

**Availability**:
- macOS 10.15.2+

## Declaration

```swift
static kern_return_t Create(OSObject *target, uint64_t targetmsgid, uint64_t msgid, size_t referenceSize, OSAction **action);
```

#### Return_value

[`kIOReturnSuccess`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/driverkit/kioreturnsuccess) on success, or another value if an error occurs. See `Error Codes`. 

#### Discussion

Use the custom constructor method generated by the [`TYPE`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/driverkit/type) macro, instead of this method. For more information on custom constructor methods for action objects, see [`TYPE`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/driverkit/type). 

## Parameters

- `target`: The object that contains the target method. The action object retains your target object. 
- `targetmsgid`: The message ID for the custom method that you want the system to call. The   macro automatically generates a constant for this message ID that takes the form < , where   is the name of your class and   is the name of your custom method. 
- `msgid`: The message ID for the method the system expects to call. When using the   macro to declare conformance to DriverKit methods, specify the ID for the method you passed as a parameter to the   macro. For example, if you use the type macro to specify the   method of  , specify  .
- `referenceSize`: The additional number of bytes to allocate and store with your action object. Retrieve a pointer to this buffer later using the   method. 
- `action`: A pointer to a variable for your action object. If this method creates the action object successfully, it returns that object in this parameter. It is a programmer error to specify   for this parameter. 

## See Also

- [- free](osaction/3438209-free.md)
  Performs any final cleanup for the action object.
- [- SetAbortedHandler](osaction/3438208-setabortedhandler.md)
  Install a handler for the system to call when no other processes reference the action object.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/kernel/osaction/3438206-create)*