# IOInterruptDispatchSource

**Framework**: DriverKit  
**Kind**: class

A dispatch source that reports hardware-related interrupt events to your driver.

**Availability**:
- DriverKit ?+
- iOS ?+
- iPadOS ?+
- macOS ?+

## Declaration

```swift
class IOInterruptDispatchSource;
```

#### Overview

An [`IOInterruptDispatchSource`](iointerruptdispatchsource.md) object executes an associated action in response to hardware-related interrupts. If your driver handles hardware interrupts, configure this dispatch source and use your action object to provide an appropriat response.

Interrupt-related actions execute at the normal thread level. The system records the time at which the interrupt fired using the [`mach_absolute_time`](mach_absolute_time.md) function, and passes that time value to your action’s callback method. For PCI devices, DriverKit supports only MSI interrupt sources.

## Topics

### Configuring the Interrupt Source
- [Create](iointerruptdispatchsource/create.md)
  Create a dispatch source that reports hardware-related interrupts generated by the specified service provider.
- [init](iointerruptdispatchsource/init.md)
  Handles the basic initialization of the dispatch source.
- [free](iointerruptdispatchsource/free.md)
  Performs any final cleanup for the dispatch source.
- [SetHandler](iointerruptdispatchsource/sethandler.md)
  Set the handler block to run when the interrupt fires.
### Starting and Stopping the Interrupt Source
- [SetEnableWithCompletion](iointerruptdispatchsource/setenablewithcompletion.md)
  Enables or disables the delivery of interrupts.
- [Cancel](iointerruptdispatchsource/cancel.md)
  Cancels all callbacks from the event source.
- [IODispatchSourceCancelHandler](iodispatchsourcecancelhandler.md)
  A block to execute when a canceled dispatch source stops executing tasks.
### Declaring Actions
- [InterruptOccurred](iointerruptdispatchsource/interruptoccurred.md)
  Executes custom code when an interrupt occurs.
- [CheckForWork](iointerruptdispatchsource/checkforwork.md)
  Checks for events to handle.
- [IOInterruptDispatchSourcePayload](iointerruptdispatchsourcepayload.md)
  A private structure for an interrupt dispatch source.
### Instance Methods
- [GetLastInterrupt](iointerruptdispatchsource/getlastinterrupt.md)
### Type Methods
- [GetInterruptType](iointerruptdispatchsource/getinterrupttype.md)

## Relationships

### Inherits From
- [IODispatchSource](iodispatchsource.md)

## See Also

- [IODispatchQueue](iodispatchqueue.md)
  An object that manages the serial execution of blocks.
- [IOTimerDispatchSource](iotimerdispatchsource.md)
  A dispatch source that notifies your driver at a specific time.
- [IODataQueueDispatchSource](iodataqueuedispatchsource.md)
  A dispatch source that manages a shared-memory data queue.
- [IODispatchSource](iodispatchsource.md)
  The common base class for dispatch sources.
- [OSAction](osaction.md)
  An object that executes your driver’s custom behavior.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/driverkit/iointerruptdispatchsource)*