# iso8601

**Framework**: Foundation  
**Kind**: property

A style for formatting a date in accordance with the ISO-8601 standard.

**Availability**:
- iOS 15.0+
- iPadOS 15.0+
- Mac Catalyst 15.0+
- macOS 12.0+
- tvOS 15.0+
- visionOS 1.0+
- watchOS 8.0+

## Declaration

```swift
static var iso8601: Date.ISO8601FormatStyle { get }
```

#### Discussion

This style uses the ISO-8601 standard for formatting dates, such as `2024-04-01T12:34:56.789Z`. This style is well-suited for machine-readable date formatting. For other formatting conventions, like human-readable, localized date formats, use [`Date.FormatStyle`](date/formatstyle.md).

Use this type property when the call point allows the use of [`Date.ISO8601FormatStyle`](date/iso8601formatstyle.md). You typically do this when calling the [`formatted(_:)`](date/formatted(_:).md) method of [`Date`](date.md).

Customize the ISO-8601 date format style using modifier syntax to include or omit the various components of the date and time. For example:

```swift
let meetNow = Date()
let formatted = meetNow.formatted(
    .iso8601
    .year()
    .month()
    .day()
    .timeZone(separator: .omitted)
    .time(includingFractionalSeconds: true)
    .timeSeparator(.colon)
) // "2022-06-10T12:34:56.789Z"
```

## See Also

- [static var dateTime: Date.FormatStyle](formatstyle/datetime.md)
  A style for formatting a date and time.
- [struct FormatStyle](date/formatstyle.md)
  A structure that creates a locale-appropriate string representation of a date instance and converts strings of dates and times into date instances.
- [struct ISO8601FormatStyle](date/iso8601formatstyle.md)
  A type that converts between dates and their ISO-8601 string representations.
- [static func verbatim(Date.FormatString, locale: Locale?, timeZone: TimeZone, calendar: Calendar) -> Date.VerbatimFormatStyle](formatstyle/verbatim(_:locale:timezone:calendar:).md)
  Returns a style for formatting a date with an explicitly-specified style.
- [struct VerbatimFormatStyle](date/verbatimformatstyle.md)
  A style that formats a date with an explicitly-specified style.
- [static var interval: Date.IntervalFormatStyle](formatstyle/interval.md)
  A style for formatting a date interval.
- [struct IntervalFormatStyle](date/intervalformatstyle.md)
  A format style that creates string representations of date intervals.
- [static func relative(presentation: Date.RelativeFormatStyle.Presentation, unitsStyle: Date.RelativeFormatStyle.UnitsStyle) -> Self](formatstyle/relative(presentation:unitsstyle:).md)
  Returns a style for formatting a date as relative to the current date.
- [struct RelativeFormatStyle](date/relativeformatstyle.md)
  A format style that forms locale-aware string representations of a relative date or time.
- [static func components(style: Date.ComponentsFormatStyle.Style, fields: Set<Date.ComponentsFormatStyle.Field>?) -> Self](formatstyle/components(style:fields:).md)
  Returns a style for formatting a date interval in terms of specific date components.
- [struct ComponentsFormatStyle](date/componentsformatstyle.md)
  A style for formatting a date interval in terms of specific date components.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/formatstyle/iso8601)*