# MTL4RenderPassDescriptor

**Framework**: Metal  
**Kind**: class

Describes a render pass.

**Availability**:
- iOS 26.0+ (Beta)
- iPadOS 26.0+ (Beta)
- Mac Catalyst 26.0+ (Beta)
- macOS 26.0+ (Beta)
- tvOS 26.0+ (Beta)
- visionOS 26.0+ (Beta)

## Declaration

```swift
class MTL4RenderPassDescriptor
```

#### Overview

You use render pass descriptors to create instances of [`MTL4RenderCommandEncoder`](mtl4rendercommandencoder.md) and encode draw commands into instances of [`MTL4CommandBuffer`](mtl4commandbuffer.md).

To create render command encoders, you typically call [`renderCommandEncoderWithDescriptor:`](mtl4commandbuffer/rendercommandencoderwithdescriptor:.md). The [`makeRenderCommandEncoder(descriptor:options:)`](mtl4commandbuffer/makerendercommandencoder(descriptor:options:).md) variant of this method allows you to specify additional options to encode a render pass in parallel from multiple CPU cores by creating  and  render passes.

## Topics

### Instance Properties
- [var colorAttachments: MTLRenderPassColorAttachmentDescriptorArray](mtl4renderpassdescriptor/colorattachments.md)
  Accesses the array of state information for render attachments that store color data.
- [var defaultRasterSampleCount: Int](mtl4renderpassdescriptor/defaultrastersamplecount.md)
  Sets the default raster sample count for the render pass when it references no attachments.
- [var depthAttachment: MTLRenderPassDepthAttachmentDescriptor!](mtl4renderpassdescriptor/depthattachment.md)
  Accesses state information for a render attachment that stores depth data.
- [var imageblockSampleLength: Int](mtl4renderpassdescriptor/imageblocksamplelength.md)
  Assigns the per-sample size, in bytes, of the largest explicit imageblock layout in the render pass.
- [var rasterizationRateMap: (any MTLRasterizationRateMap)?](mtl4renderpassdescriptor/rasterizationratemap.md)
  Assigns an optional variable rasterization rate map that Metal uses in the render pass.
- [var renderTargetArrayLength: Int](mtl4renderpassdescriptor/rendertargetarraylength.md)
  Assigns the number of layers that all attachments this descriptor references have.
- [var renderTargetHeight: Int](mtl4renderpassdescriptor/rendertargetheight.md)
  Sets the height, in pixels, to which Metal constrains the render target.
- [var renderTargetWidth: Int](mtl4renderpassdescriptor/rendertargetwidth.md)
  Sets the width, in pixels, to which Metal constrains the render target.
- [var samplePositions: [MTLSamplePosition]](mtl4renderpassdescriptor/samplepositions.md)
  Configures the custom sample positions to use in MSAA rendering.
- [var stencilAttachment: MTLRenderPassStencilAttachmentDescriptor!](mtl4renderpassdescriptor/stencilattachment.md)
  Accesses state information for a render attachment that stores stencil data.
- [var supportColorAttachmentMapping: Bool](mtl4renderpassdescriptor/supportcolorattachmentmapping.md)
  Controls if the render pass supports color attachment mapping.
- [var threadgroupMemoryLength: Int](mtl4renderpassdescriptor/threadgroupmemorylength.md)
  Assigns the per-tile size, in bytes, of the persistent threadgroup memory allocation of this render pass.
- [var tileHeight: Int](mtl4renderpassdescriptor/tileheight.md)
  Sets the height, in pixels, of the tiles in which Metal divides the render attachments for tile-based rendering.
- [var tileWidth: Int](mtl4renderpassdescriptor/tilewidth.md)
  Sets the width, in pixels, of the tiles into which Metal divides the render attachments for tile-based rendering.
- [var visibilityResultBuffer: (any MTLBuffer)?](mtl4renderpassdescriptor/visibilityresultbuffer.md)
  Configures a buffer into which Metal writes counts of fragments (pixels) passing the depth and stencil tests.
- [var visibilityResultType: MTLVisibilityResultType](mtl4renderpassdescriptor/visibilityresulttype.md)
  Determines if Metal accumulates visibility results between render encoders or resets them.

## Relationships

### Inherits From
- [NSObject](../ObjectiveC/NSObject-swift.class.md)
### Conforms To
- [CVarArg](../Swift/CVarArg.md)
- [CustomDebugStringConvertible](../Swift/CustomDebugStringConvertible.md)
- [CustomStringConvertible](../Swift/CustomStringConvertible.md)
- [Equatable](../Swift/Equatable.md)
- [Hashable](../Swift/Hashable.md)
- [NSCopying](../Foundation/NSCopying.md)
- [NSObjectProtocol](../ObjectiveC/NSObjectProtocol.md)

## See Also

- [class MTLRenderPassDescriptor](mtlrenderpassdescriptor.md)
  A group of render targets that hold the results of a render pass.
- [class MTLRenderPassAttachmentDescriptor](mtlrenderpassattachmentdescriptor.md)
  A render target that serves as the output destination for pixels generated by a render pass.
- [class MTLRenderPassColorAttachmentDescriptorArray](mtlrenderpasscolorattachmentdescriptorarray.md)
  An array of render pass color attachment descriptor objects.
- [class MTLRenderPassColorAttachmentDescriptor](mtlrenderpasscolorattachmentdescriptor.md)
  A color render target that serves as the output destination for color pixels generated by a render pass.
- [struct MTLClearColor](mtlclearcolor.md)
  An RGBA value used for a color pixel.
- [class MTLRenderPassDepthAttachmentDescriptor](mtlrenderpassdepthattachmentdescriptor.md)
  A depth render target that serves as the output destination for depth pixels generated by a render pass.
- [enum MTLMultisampleDepthResolveFilter](mtlmultisampledepthresolvefilter.md)
  Filtering options for controlling an MSAA depth resolve operation.
- [class MTL4RenderPipelineColorAttachmentDescriptorArray](mtl4renderpipelinecolorattachmentdescriptorarray.md)
  An array of color attachment descriptions for a render pipeline.
- [class MTLTileRenderPipelineColorAttachmentDescriptorArray](mtltilerenderpipelinecolorattachmentdescriptorarray.md)
  An array of color attachment descriptors for the tile render pipeline.
- [class MTLRenderPassStencilAttachmentDescriptor](mtlrenderpassstencilattachmentdescriptor.md)
  A stencil render target that serves as the output destination for stencil pixels generated by a render pass.
- [enum MTLMultisampleStencilResolveFilter](mtlmultisamplestencilresolvefilter.md)
  Constants used to control the multisample stencil resolve operation.
- [class MTLRenderPassSampleBufferAttachmentDescriptorArray](mtlrenderpasssamplebufferattachmentdescriptorarray.md)
  An array of sample buffer attachments for a render pass.
- [class MTLRenderPassSampleBufferAttachmentDescriptor](mtlrenderpasssamplebufferattachmentdescriptor.md)
  A description of where to store GPU counter information at the start and end of a render pass.
- [class MTLLogicalToPhysicalColorAttachmentMap](mtllogicaltophysicalcolorattachmentmap.md)
  Allows you to easily specify color attachment remapping from logical to physical indices.
- [let MTLRenderTargetRemapIndexDiscard: Int](mtlrendertargetremapindexdiscard.md)
  Constant to specify discarding a color attachment’s index in a remap operation.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/metal/mtl4renderpassdescriptor)*