# MTLClearColor

**Framework**: Metal  
**Kind**: struct

An RGBA value used for a color pixel.

**Availability**:
- iOS ?+
- iPadOS ?+
- Mac Catalyst ?+
- macOS ?+
- tvOS ?+
- visionOS ?+

## Declaration

```swift
struct MTLClearColor
```

## Topics

### Initializers
- [init()](mtlclearcolor/init.md)
  Returns a new color structure.
- [init(red: Double, green: Double, blue: Double, alpha: Double)](mtlclearcolor/init(red:green:blue:alpha:).md)
  Returns a new color structure with the specified red, green, blue, and alpha values.
### Instance Properties
- [var alpha: Double](mtlclearcolor/alpha.md)
  The alpha channel.
- [var blue: Double](mtlclearcolor/blue.md)
  The blue color channel.
- [var green: Double](mtlclearcolor/green.md)
  The green color channel.
- [var red: Double](mtlclearcolor/red.md)
  The red color channel.

## Relationships

### Conforms To
- [BitwiseCopyable](../Swift/BitwiseCopyable.md)
- [Sendable](../Swift/Sendable.md)

## See Also

- [class MTL4RenderPassDescriptor](mtl4renderpassdescriptor.md)
  Describes a render pass.
- [class MTLRenderPassDescriptor](mtlrenderpassdescriptor.md)
  A group of render targets that hold the results of a render pass.
- [class MTLRenderPassAttachmentDescriptor](mtlrenderpassattachmentdescriptor.md)
  A render target that serves as the output destination for pixels generated by a render pass.
- [class MTLRenderPassColorAttachmentDescriptorArray](mtlrenderpasscolorattachmentdescriptorarray.md)
  An array of render pass color attachment descriptor objects.
- [class MTLRenderPassColorAttachmentDescriptor](mtlrenderpasscolorattachmentdescriptor.md)
  A color render target that serves as the output destination for color pixels generated by a render pass.
- [class MTLRenderPassDepthAttachmentDescriptor](mtlrenderpassdepthattachmentdescriptor.md)
  A depth render target that serves as the output destination for depth pixels generated by a render pass.
- [enum MTLMultisampleDepthResolveFilter](mtlmultisampledepthresolvefilter.md)
  Filtering options for controlling an MSAA depth resolve operation.
- [class MTL4RenderPipelineColorAttachmentDescriptorArray](mtl4renderpipelinecolorattachmentdescriptorarray.md)
  An array of color attachment descriptions for a render pipeline.
- [class MTLTileRenderPipelineColorAttachmentDescriptorArray](mtltilerenderpipelinecolorattachmentdescriptorarray.md)
  An array of color attachment descriptors for the tile render pipeline.
- [class MTLRenderPassStencilAttachmentDescriptor](mtlrenderpassstencilattachmentdescriptor.md)
  A stencil render target that serves as the output destination for stencil pixels generated by a render pass.
- [enum MTLMultisampleStencilResolveFilter](mtlmultisamplestencilresolvefilter.md)
  Constants used to control the multisample stencil resolve operation.
- [class MTLRenderPassSampleBufferAttachmentDescriptorArray](mtlrenderpasssamplebufferattachmentdescriptorarray.md)
  An array of sample buffer attachments for a render pass.
- [class MTLRenderPassSampleBufferAttachmentDescriptor](mtlrenderpasssamplebufferattachmentdescriptor.md)
  A description of where to store GPU counter information at the start and end of a render pass.
- [class MTLLogicalToPhysicalColorAttachmentMap](mtllogicaltophysicalcolorattachmentmap.md)
  Allows you to easily specify color attachment remapping from logical to physical indices.
- [struct MTLDispatchThreadsIndirectArguments](mtldispatchthreadsindirectarguments.md)


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/metal/mtlclearcolor)*