# MTLRenderPassDescriptor

**Framework**: Metal  
**Kind**: class

A group of render targets that hold the results of a render pass.

**Availability**:
- iOS 8.0+
- iPadOS 8.0+
- Mac Catalyst 13.1+
- macOS 10.11+
- tvOS ?+
- visionOS 1.0+

## Declaration

```swift
class MTLRenderPassDescriptor
```

## Mentions

- [Sampling GPU data into counter sample buffers](sampling-gpu-data-into-counter-sample-buffers.md)
- [Positioning samples programmatically](positioning-samples-programmatically.md)
- [Rendering to multiple texture slices in a draw command](rendering-to-multiple-texture-slices-in-a-draw-command.md)

#### Overview

An [`MTLRenderPassDescriptor`](mtlrenderpassdescriptor.md) instance contains a collection of attachments used as the rendering destination for pixels generated by a rendering pass. The [`MTLRenderPassDescriptor`](mtlrenderpassdescriptor.md) instance also sets the destination buffer for visibility information generated by a rendering pass.

> ❗ **Important**:  When configuring an [`MTLTextureDescriptor`](mtltexturedescriptor.md) instance for use with an attachment, set its [`usage`](mtltexturedescriptor/usage.md) value to [`renderTarget`](mtltextureusage/rendertarget.md) if you already know that you intend to use the resulting [`MTLTexture`](mtltexture.md) instance in an attachment. This may significantly improve your app’s performance with certain hardware.

## Topics

### Specifying the attachments for a rendering pass
- [var colorAttachments: MTLRenderPassColorAttachmentDescriptorArray](mtlrenderpassdescriptor/colorattachments.md)
  An array of state information for attachments that store color data.
- [var depthAttachment: MTLRenderPassDepthAttachmentDescriptor!](mtlrenderpassdescriptor/depthattachment.md)
  State information for an attachment that stores depth data.
- [var stencilAttachment: MTLRenderPassStencilAttachmentDescriptor!](mtlrenderpassdescriptor/stencilattachment.md)
  State information for an attachment that stores stencil data.
### Specifying the visibility result buffer
- [var visibilityResultBuffer: (any MTLBuffer)?](mtlrenderpassdescriptor/visibilityresultbuffer.md)
  A buffer where the GPU writes visibility test results when fragments pass depth and stencil tests.
### Layered rendering
- [var renderTargetArrayLength: Int](mtlrenderpassdescriptor/rendertargetarraylength.md)
  The number of active layers that all attachments need to have for layered rendering.
- [var renderTargetWidth: Int](mtlrenderpassdescriptor/rendertargetwidth.md)
  The width, in pixels, to constrain the render target to.
- [var renderTargetHeight: Int](mtlrenderpassdescriptor/rendertargetheight.md)
  The height, in pixels, to constrain the render target to.
### Using programmable sample positions
- [func MTLSamplePositionMake(Float, Float) -> MTLSamplePosition](mtlsamplepositionmake(_:_:).md)
  Returns a new sample position on a subpixel grid.
- [func setSamplePositions([MTLSamplePosition])](mtlrenderpassdescriptor/setsamplepositions(_:).md)
  Sets the programmable sample positions for a render pass.
- [func getSamplePositions() -> [MTLSamplePosition]](mtlrenderpassdescriptor/getsamplepositions.md)
  Returns the programmable sample positions set for a render pass.
### Specifying tile shading parameters
- [var imageblockSampleLength: Int](mtlrenderpassdescriptor/imageblocksamplelength.md)
  The per-sample size, in bytes, of the largest explicit imageblock layout in the render pass.
- [var threadgroupMemoryLength: Int](mtlrenderpassdescriptor/threadgroupmemorylength.md)
  The per-tile size, in bytes, of the persistent threadgroup memory allocation.
- [var tileWidth: Int](mtlrenderpassdescriptor/tilewidth.md)
  The tile width, in pixels.
- [var tileHeight: Int](mtlrenderpassdescriptor/tileheight.md)
  The tile height, in pixels.
### Specifying sample counts
- [var defaultRasterSampleCount: Int](mtlrenderpassdescriptor/defaultrastersamplecount.md)
  The raster sample count for the render pass when the render pass doesn’t have explicit attachments.
### Specifying a rasterization rate map
- [var rasterizationRateMap: (any MTLRasterizationRateMap)?](mtlrenderpassdescriptor/rasterizationratemap.md)
  The rasterization rate map to use when executing the render pass.
### Specifying sample buffers for GPU counters
- [var sampleBufferAttachments: MTLRenderPassSampleBufferAttachmentDescriptorArray](mtlrenderpassdescriptor/samplebufferattachments.md)
  The array of sample buffers that the render pass can access.
### Instance Properties
- [var supportColorAttachmentMapping: Bool](mtlrenderpassdescriptor/supportcolorattachmentmapping.md)
  Specifies if the render pass should support color attachment mapping.
- [var visibilityResultType: MTLVisibilityResultType](mtlrenderpassdescriptor/visibilityresulttype.md)
  Specifies if Metal accumulates visibility results between render encoders or resets them.

## Relationships

### Inherits From
- [NSObject](../ObjectiveC/NSObject-swift.class.md)
### Conforms To
- [CVarArg](../Swift/CVarArg.md)
- [CustomDebugStringConvertible](../Swift/CustomDebugStringConvertible.md)
- [CustomStringConvertible](../Swift/CustomStringConvertible.md)
- [Equatable](../Swift/Equatable.md)
- [Hashable](../Swift/Hashable.md)
- [NSCopying](../Foundation/NSCopying.md)
- [NSObjectProtocol](../ObjectiveC/NSObjectProtocol.md)

## See Also

- [class MTL4RenderPassDescriptor](mtl4renderpassdescriptor.md)
  Describes a render pass.
- [class MTLRenderPassAttachmentDescriptor](mtlrenderpassattachmentdescriptor.md)
  A render target that serves as the output destination for pixels generated by a render pass.
- [class MTLRenderPassColorAttachmentDescriptorArray](mtlrenderpasscolorattachmentdescriptorarray.md)
  An array of render pass color attachment descriptor objects.
- [class MTLRenderPassColorAttachmentDescriptor](mtlrenderpasscolorattachmentdescriptor.md)
  A color render target that serves as the output destination for color pixels generated by a render pass.
- [struct MTLClearColor](mtlclearcolor.md)
  An RGBA value used for a color pixel.
- [class MTLRenderPassDepthAttachmentDescriptor](mtlrenderpassdepthattachmentdescriptor.md)
  A depth render target that serves as the output destination for depth pixels generated by a render pass.
- [enum MTLMultisampleDepthResolveFilter](mtlmultisampledepthresolvefilter.md)
  Filtering options for controlling an MSAA depth resolve operation.
- [class MTL4RenderPipelineColorAttachmentDescriptorArray](mtl4renderpipelinecolorattachmentdescriptorarray.md)
  An array of color attachment descriptions for a render pipeline.
- [class MTLTileRenderPipelineColorAttachmentDescriptorArray](mtltilerenderpipelinecolorattachmentdescriptorarray.md)
  An array of color attachment descriptors for the tile render pipeline.
- [class MTLRenderPassStencilAttachmentDescriptor](mtlrenderpassstencilattachmentdescriptor.md)
  A stencil render target that serves as the output destination for stencil pixels generated by a render pass.
- [enum MTLMultisampleStencilResolveFilter](mtlmultisamplestencilresolvefilter.md)
  Constants used to control the multisample stencil resolve operation.
- [class MTLRenderPassSampleBufferAttachmentDescriptorArray](mtlrenderpasssamplebufferattachmentdescriptorarray.md)
  An array of sample buffer attachments for a render pass.
- [class MTLRenderPassSampleBufferAttachmentDescriptor](mtlrenderpasssamplebufferattachmentdescriptor.md)
  A description of where to store GPU counter information at the start and end of a render pass.
- [class MTLLogicalToPhysicalColorAttachmentMap](mtllogicaltophysicalcolorattachmentmap.md)
  Allows you to easily specify color attachment remapping from logical to physical indices.
- [struct MTLDispatchThreadsIndirectArguments](mtldispatchthreadsindirectarguments.md)


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/metal/mtlrenderpassdescriptor)*