# MTLRenderPassSampleBufferAttachmentDescriptor

**Framework**: Metal  
**Kind**: class

A description of where to store GPU counter information at the start and end of a render pass.

**Availability**:
- iOS 14.0+
- iPadOS 14.0+
- Mac Catalyst 14.0+
- macOS 11.0+
- tvOS 14.0+
- visionOS 1.0+

## Declaration

```swift
class MTLRenderPassSampleBufferAttachmentDescriptor
```

## Mentions

- [Creating a Counter Sample Buffer to Store a GPU’s Counter Data During a Pass](creating-a-counter-sample-buffer-to-store-a-gpus-counter-data-during-a-pass.md)
- [Sampling GPU Data into Counter Sample Buffers](sampling-gpu-data-into-counter-sample-buffers.md)

## Topics

### Configuring the Sample Buffer Attachment
- [var sampleBuffer: (any MTLCounterSampleBuffer)?](mtlrenderpasssamplebufferattachmentdescriptor/samplebuffer.md)
  A specialized memory buffer that the GPU uses to store its counter data during the render pass.
- [var startOfVertexSampleIndex: Int](mtlrenderpasssamplebufferattachmentdescriptor/startofvertexsampleindex.md)
  The index the Metal device object should use to store GPU counters when starting the render pass’s vertex stage.
- [var endOfVertexSampleIndex: Int](mtlrenderpasssamplebufferattachmentdescriptor/endofvertexsampleindex.md)
  The index the Metal device object should use to store GPU counters when ending the render pass’s vertex stage.
- [var startOfFragmentSampleIndex: Int](mtlrenderpasssamplebufferattachmentdescriptor/startoffragmentsampleindex.md)
  The index the Metal device object should use to store GPU counters when starting the render pass’s fragment stage.
- [var endOfFragmentSampleIndex: Int](mtlrenderpasssamplebufferattachmentdescriptor/endoffragmentsampleindex.md)
  The index the Metal device object should use to store GPU counters when ending the render pass’s fragment stage.

## Relationships

### Inherits From
- [NSObject](../ObjectiveC/NSObject-swift.class.md)
### Conforms To
- [CVarArg](../Swift/CVarArg.md)
- [CustomDebugStringConvertible](../Swift/CustomDebugStringConvertible.md)
- [CustomStringConvertible](../Swift/CustomStringConvertible.md)
- [Equatable](../Swift/Equatable.md)
- [Hashable](../Swift/Hashable.md)
- [NSCopying](../Foundation/NSCopying.md)
- [NSObjectProtocol](../ObjectiveC/NSObjectProtocol.md)

## See Also

- [class MTLRenderPassDescriptor](mtlrenderpassdescriptor.md)
  A group of render targets that hold the results of a render pass.
- [class MTLRenderPassAttachmentDescriptor](mtlrenderpassattachmentdescriptor.md)
  A render target that serves as the output destination for pixels generated by a render pass.
- [class MTLRenderPassColorAttachmentDescriptorArray](mtlrenderpasscolorattachmentdescriptorarray.md)
  An array of render pass color attachment descriptor objects.
- [class MTLRenderPassColorAttachmentDescriptor](mtlrenderpasscolorattachmentdescriptor.md)
  A color render target that serves as the output destination for color pixels generated by a render pass.
- [struct MTLClearColor](mtlclearcolor.md)
  An RGBA value used for a color pixel.
- [class MTLRenderPassDepthAttachmentDescriptor](mtlrenderpassdepthattachmentdescriptor.md)
  A depth render target that serves as the output destination for depth pixels generated by a render pass.
- [enum MTLMultisampleDepthResolveFilter](mtlmultisampledepthresolvefilter.md)
  Filtering options for controlling an MSAA depth resolve operation.
- [class MTLTileRenderPipelineColorAttachmentDescriptorArray](mtltilerenderpipelinecolorattachmentdescriptorarray.md)
  An array of color attachment descriptors for the tile render pipeline.
- [class MTLRenderPassStencilAttachmentDescriptor](mtlrenderpassstencilattachmentdescriptor.md)
  A stencil render target that serves as the output destination for stencil pixels generated by a render pass.
- [enum MTLMultisampleStencilResolveFilter](mtlmultisamplestencilresolvefilter.md)
  Constants used to control the multisample stencil resolve operation.
- [class MTLRenderPassSampleBufferAttachmentDescriptorArray](mtlrenderpasssamplebufferattachmentdescriptorarray.md)
  An array of sample buffer attachments for a render pass.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/metal/mtlrenderpasssamplebufferattachmentdescriptor)*