# MTLRenderPassAttachmentDescriptor

**Framework**: Metal  
**Kind**: class

A render target that serves as the output destination for pixels generated by a render pass.

**Availability**:
- iOS 8.0+
- iPadOS 8.0+
- Mac Catalyst 13.1+
- macOS 10.11+
- tvOS ?+
- visionOS 1.0+

## Declaration

```swift
class MTLRenderPassAttachmentDescriptor
```

## Mentions

- [Setting Load and Store Actions](setting-load-and-store-actions.md)
- [Choosing a Resource Storage Mode for Apple GPUs](choosing-a-resource-storage-mode-for-apple-gpus.md)

#### Overview

Use a [`MTLRenderPassAttachmentDescriptor`](mtlrenderpassattachmentdescriptor.md) object to configure an individual render target of a framebuffer. Each [`MTLRenderPassAttachmentDescriptor`](mtlrenderpassattachmentdescriptor.md) object specifies one texture that a graphics rendering pass can write into.

Typically, you don’t directly create [`MTLRenderPassAttachmentDescriptor`](mtlrenderpassattachmentdescriptor.md) objects. Instead, the [`MTLRenderPassDescriptor`](mtlrenderpassdescriptor.md) object creates a default set of attachment objects. For each attachment that you intend to use as a render target, retrieve the [`MTLRenderPassAttachmentDescriptor`](mtlrenderpassattachmentdescriptor.md) object from the render pass descriptor and configure its properties for use during this rendering pass.

You must set the attachment’s [`texture`](mtlrenderpassattachmentdescriptor/texture.md) property. The [`level`](mtlrenderpassattachmentdescriptor/level.md), [`slice`](mtlrenderpassattachmentdescriptor/slice.md), and [`depthPlane`](mtlrenderpassattachmentdescriptor/depthplane.md) properties specify the mipmap level, slice, and depth plane (for 3D textures) of the texture, respectively.

The [`loadAction`](mtlrenderpassattachmentdescriptor/loadaction.md) and [`storeAction`](mtlrenderpassattachmentdescriptor/storeaction.md) properties specify actions to perform at the start and end of a rendering pass for the attachment, respectively. For example, if you set the [`loadAction`](mtlrenderpassattachmentdescriptor/loadaction.md) property of an attachment to [`MTLLoadAction.clear`](mtlloadaction/clear.md), then the contents of the texture fill with a value for the type of attachment at the start of the rendering pass.

There are specific [`MTLRenderPassAttachmentDescriptor`](mtlrenderpassattachmentdescriptor.md) subclasses for color, depth, and stencil attachments. Each subclass provides additional properties to configure for that kind of attachment. The table below provides the list of subclasses.

| Attachment type | Descriptor subclass |
| --- | --- |
| Color | [`MTLRenderPassColorAttachmentDescriptor`](mtlrenderpasscolorattachmentdescriptor.md) |
| Depth | [`MTLRenderPassDepthAttachmentDescriptor`](mtlrenderpassdepthattachmentdescriptor.md) |
| Stencil | [`MTLRenderPassStencilAttachmentDescriptor`](mtlrenderpassstencilattachmentdescriptor.md) |

##### Multisampling

To perform multisampled antialiased rendering, you use two textures. Attach to the [`texture`](mtlrenderpassattachmentdescriptor/texture.md) property a [`MTLTextureType.type2DMultisample`](mtltexturetype/type2dmultisample.md) texture, and a 2D or cube texture to the [`resolveTexture`](mtlrenderpassattachmentdescriptor/resolvetexture.md) property. When a rendering command executes, it renders to the multisample texture. At the end of the render pass, the GPU resolves the contents of the multisample texture and writes the results into the resolve texture. The [`resolveLevel`](mtlrenderpassattachmentdescriptor/resolvelevel.md), [`resolveSlice`](mtlrenderpassattachmentdescriptor/resolveslice.md), and [`resolveDepthPlane`](mtlrenderpassattachmentdescriptor/resolvedepthplane.md) properties specify where the resolved image is written to. The attachment’s [`storeAction`](mtlrenderpassattachmentdescriptor/storeaction.md) property determines what happens to the multisample texture after the GPU resolves its data.

## Topics

### Specifying the Texture for the Attachment
- [var texture: (any MTLTexture)?](mtlrenderpassattachmentdescriptor/texture.md)
  The texture object associated with this attachment.
- [var level: Int](mtlrenderpassattachmentdescriptor/level.md)
  The mipmap level of the texture used for rendering to the attachment.
- [var slice: Int](mtlrenderpassattachmentdescriptor/slice.md)
  The slice of the texture used for rendering to the attachment.
- [var depthPlane: Int](mtlrenderpassattachmentdescriptor/depthplane.md)
  The depth plane of the texture used for rendering to the attachment.
### Specifying Rendering Pass Actions
- [var loadAction: MTLLoadAction](mtlrenderpassattachmentdescriptor/loadaction.md)
  The action performed by this attachment at the start of a rendering pass for a render command encoder.
- [var storeAction: MTLStoreAction](mtlrenderpassattachmentdescriptor/storeaction.md)
  The action performed by this attachment at the end of a rendering pass for a render command encoder.
- [var storeActionOptions: MTLStoreActionOptions](mtlrenderpassattachmentdescriptor/storeactionoptions.md)
  The options that modify the store action performed by this attachment.
### Specifying the Texture to Resolve Multisample Data
- [var resolveTexture: (any MTLTexture)?](mtlrenderpassattachmentdescriptor/resolvetexture.md)
  The destination texture used when resolving multisampled texture data into single sample values.
- [var resolveLevel: Int](mtlrenderpassattachmentdescriptor/resolvelevel.md)
  The mipmap level of the texture used for the multisample resolve action.
- [var resolveSlice: Int](mtlrenderpassattachmentdescriptor/resolveslice.md)
  The slice of the texture used for the multisample resolve action.
- [var resolveDepthPlane: Int](mtlrenderpassattachmentdescriptor/resolvedepthplane.md)
  The depth plane of the texture used for the multisample resolve action.

## Relationships

### Inherits From
- [NSObject](../ObjectiveC/NSObject-swift.class.md)
### Inherited By
- [MTLRenderPassColorAttachmentDescriptor](mtlrenderpasscolorattachmentdescriptor.md)
- [MTLRenderPassDepthAttachmentDescriptor](mtlrenderpassdepthattachmentdescriptor.md)
- [MTLRenderPassStencilAttachmentDescriptor](mtlrenderpassstencilattachmentdescriptor.md)
### Conforms To
- [CVarArg](../Swift/CVarArg.md)
- [CustomDebugStringConvertible](../Swift/CustomDebugStringConvertible.md)
- [CustomStringConvertible](../Swift/CustomStringConvertible.md)
- [Equatable](../Swift/Equatable.md)
- [Hashable](../Swift/Hashable.md)
- [NSCopying](../Foundation/NSCopying.md)
- [NSObjectProtocol](../ObjectiveC/NSObjectProtocol.md)

## See Also

- [class MTL4RenderPassDescriptor](mtl4renderpassdescriptor.md)
  Describes a render pass.
- [class MTLRenderPassDescriptor](mtlrenderpassdescriptor.md)
  A group of render targets that hold the results of a render pass.
- [class MTLRenderPassColorAttachmentDescriptorArray](mtlrenderpasscolorattachmentdescriptorarray.md)
  An array of render pass color attachment descriptor objects.
- [class MTLRenderPassColorAttachmentDescriptor](mtlrenderpasscolorattachmentdescriptor.md)
  A color render target that serves as the output destination for color pixels generated by a render pass.
- [struct MTLClearColor](mtlclearcolor.md)
  An RGBA value used for a color pixel.
- [class MTLRenderPassDepthAttachmentDescriptor](mtlrenderpassdepthattachmentdescriptor.md)
  A depth render target that serves as the output destination for depth pixels generated by a render pass.
- [enum MTLMultisampleDepthResolveFilter](mtlmultisampledepthresolvefilter.md)
  Filtering options for controlling an MSAA depth resolve operation.
- [class MTL4RenderPipelineColorAttachmentDescriptorArray](mtl4renderpipelinecolorattachmentdescriptorarray.md)
  An array of color attachment descriptions for a render pipeline.
- [class MTLTileRenderPipelineColorAttachmentDescriptorArray](mtltilerenderpipelinecolorattachmentdescriptorarray.md)
  An array of color attachment descriptors for the tile render pipeline.
- [class MTLRenderPassStencilAttachmentDescriptor](mtlrenderpassstencilattachmentdescriptor.md)
  A stencil render target that serves as the output destination for stencil pixels generated by a render pass.
- [enum MTLMultisampleStencilResolveFilter](mtlmultisamplestencilresolvefilter.md)
  Constants used to control the multisample stencil resolve operation.
- [class MTLRenderPassSampleBufferAttachmentDescriptorArray](mtlrenderpasssamplebufferattachmentdescriptorarray.md)
  An array of sample buffer attachments for a render pass.
- [class MTLRenderPassSampleBufferAttachmentDescriptor](mtlrenderpasssamplebufferattachmentdescriptor.md)
  A description of where to store GPU counter information at the start and end of a render pass.
- [class MTLLogicalToPhysicalColorAttachmentMap](mtllogicaltophysicalcolorattachmentmap.md)
  Allows you to easily specify color attachment remapping from logical to physical indices.
- [let MTLRenderTargetRemapIndexDiscard: Int](mtlrendertargetremapindexdiscard.md)
  Constant to specify discarding a color attachment’s index in a remap operation.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/metal/mtlrenderpassattachmentdescriptor)*