# MobileDocumentReader

**Framework**: ProximityReader  
**Kind**: class

An object for configuring mobile document reading on the current device.

**Availability**:
- iOS 17.0+
- iPadOS 17.0+
- Mac Catalyst 17.0+

## Declaration

```swift
final class MobileDocumentReader
```

## Mentions

- [Adopting the Verifier API in your iPhone app](adopting-the-verifier-api-in-your-iphone-app.md)

#### Overview

After creating the `MobileDocumentReader` object, call [`prepare(using:)`](mobiledocumentreader/prepare(using:).md) to prepare the device for mobile document reading. Use the returned [`MobileDocumentReaderSession`](mobiledocumentreadersession.md) object to read mobile documents.

You can optionally display your brand’s name and logo during a mobile document read. To do this, your server needs to generate a reader token, then pass the token as an argument to the [`prepare(using:)`](mobiledocumentreader/prepare(using:).md) method.

## Topics

### Creating a mobile document reader
- [init()](mobiledocumentreader/init.md)
  Creates a mobile document reader.
### Getting the feature availability
- [static var isSupported: Bool](mobiledocumentreader/issupported.md)
  A Boolean value that indicates whether the device supports mobile document reading.
### Preparing the device for reading mobile documents
- [func prepare(using: MobileDocumentReader.Token?) async throws -> MobileDocumentReaderSession](mobiledocumentreader/prepare(using:).md)
  Configures the device to read mobile documents.
- [MobileDocumentReader.Token](mobiledocumentreader/token.md)
  A reader token generated by your server.
### Retrieving the reader configuration
- [var configuration: MobileDocumentReader.Configuration](mobiledocumentreader/configuration-swift.property.md)
  The configuration of the mobile document reader.
- [MobileDocumentReader.Configuration](mobiledocumentreader/configuration-swift.struct.md)
  A type that represents the configuration of the mobile document reader.

## Relationships

### Conforms To
- [Sendable](../Swift/Sendable.md)

## See Also

- [Adopting the Verifier API in your iPhone app](adopting-the-verifier-api-in-your-iphone-app.md)
  Configure and test ID Verifier support in your app for reading mobile documents.
- [Generating reader tokens for the Verifier API](generating-reader-tokens-for-the-verifier-api.md)
  Configure your server to generate reader tokens to prepare a device for mobile document reading.
- [Checking IDs with the Verifier API](checking-ids-with-the-verifier-api.md)
  Read and verify mobile driver’s license information without any additional hardware.
- [class MobileDocumentReaderSession](mobiledocumentreadersession.md)
  The object you use to start reading a mobile document.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/proximityreader/mobiledocumentreader)*