# ElectricVehicleLoadEvent

**Framework**: EnergyKit  
**Kind**: struct

A measurement of the electricity consumed or generated by an electric vehicle while connected to a charger.

**Availability**:
- iOS 26.0+
- iPadOS 26.0+
- Mac Catalyst ?+
- macOS 26.0+

## Declaration

```swift
struct ElectricVehicleLoadEvent
```

#### Overview

Submit events representing electricity consumption or generate to provide insights about electricity usage and their managed devices’ adherence to [`ElectricityGuidance`](electricityguidance.md). These events, called [`ElectricVehicleLoadEvent`](electricvehicleloadevent.md)s are data points recorded at specific points in time for a given [`EnergyVenue`](energyvenue.md) that allow the venue to determine when the device used electricity and its cleanliness based on historical `ElectricityGuidance`. Additionally, relative cost can be determined using the rate plan at the `EnergyVenue`, if available. You must submit `ElectricVehicleLoadEvent`s as your managed devices consume or produce electricity. You can request insights based on submitted `ElectricVehicleLoadEvent`s. Insights are only available upon your submission of `ElectricVehicleLoadEvents`.

##### Submit Electrical Vehicle Load Events

Save data to the `ElectricVehicleLoadEvent` with a sampling rate that’s proportional to the rate of change of electrical quantities such a power. Generally, one sample every 15 minutes (at 0, 15, 30, and 45-minute marks)  is sufficient when the device’s session is active and no significant changes occur to its power state.

Significant changes may include:

- A person initiated an action.
- A pause in power consumption such as going idle.
- The power changed.

Unplugged or plugged in vehicles while idle between charging sessions don’t generate idle events. The device that requested [`ElectricityGuidance`](electricityguidance.md) must submit the corresponding load events. Load events for an [`EnergyVenue`](energyvenue.md) are accessible to all people that use the Home app.

## Topics

### Creating an electrical load event
- [init(timestamp: Date, measurement: ElectricVehicleLoadEvent.ElectricalMeasurement, session: ElectricVehicleLoadEvent.Session, deviceID: String)](electricvehicleloadevent/init(timestamp:measurement:session:deviceid:).md)
  Creates an electric vehicle load event.
- [ElectricVehicleLoadEvent.Session](electricvehicleloadevent/session-swift.struct.md)
  A session that tracks the event.
- [ElectricVehicleLoadEvent.ElectricalMeasurement](electricvehicleloadevent/electricalmeasurement.md)
  A description of the electricity consumed or generated by a device.
### Getting the electrical load event information
- [let id: UUID](electricvehicleloadevent/id.md)
  The unique identifier of the electrical load event.
- [let session: ElectricVehicleLoadEvent.Session](electricvehicleloadevent/session-swift.property.md)
  The session information.
- [let timestamp: Date](electricvehicleloadevent/timestamp.md)
  The timestamp for when the event occurred.
### Getting the device information
- [let deviceID: String](electricvehicleloadevent/deviceid.md)
  The device’s unique stable identifier.
- [let measurement: ElectricVehicleLoadEvent.ElectricalMeasurement](electricvehicleloadevent/measurement.md)
  The electricity consumption or generation of a device.

## Relationships

### Conforms To
- [Decodable](../Swift/Decodable.md)
- [ElectricalLoadEventProtocol](electricalloadeventprotocol.md)
- [Encodable](../Swift/Encodable.md)
- [Identifiable](../Swift/Identifiable.md)
- [Sendable](../Swift/Sendable.md)
- [SendableMetatype](../Swift/SendableMetatype.md)

## See Also

- [struct ElectricHVACLoadEvent](electrichvacloadevent.md)
  A measurement of the electricity consumed by an HVAC system.
- [struct EnergyVenue](energyvenue.md)
  A physical site that uses or produces electricity at that location.
- [enum ElectricityFlowDirection](electricityflowdirection.md)
  Information about which direction the electricity moves.
- [protocol ElectricalLoadEventProtocol](electricalloadeventprotocol.md)
  A type that can represent an electrical load event.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/energykit/electricvehicleloadevent)*