# EnergyVenue

**Framework**: EnergyKit  
**Kind**: struct

A physical site that uses or produces electricity at that location.

**Availability**:
- iOS 26.0+ (Beta)
- iPadOS 26.0+ (Beta)
- Mac Catalyst ?+
- macOS 26.0+ (Beta)

## Declaration

```swift
struct EnergyVenue
```

## Topics

### Returning electricity sites
- [static func venue(for: UUID) async -> EnergyVenue?](energyvenue/venue(for:).md)
  Returns an electricity venue for the given venue identifier, if found.
- [static func venue(matchingHomeUniqueIdentifier: UUID) async -> EnergyVenue?](energyvenue/venue(matchinghomeuniqueidentifier:).md)
  Returns an energy venue for the given HomeKit identifier.
- [static func venues(near: CLLocation) async -> [EnergyVenue]](energyvenue/venues(near:).md)
  Returns a list of electricity venues near the given coordinates.
### Submitting load events
- [func submitEvents<Event>([Event]) async throws](energyvenue/submitevents(_:).md)
  Submits electrical load events to be used by EnergyKit to generate energy insights.
### Identifying the location
- [let id: UUID](energyvenue/id-swift.property.md)
  A unique identifier for the venue.
- [let name: String](energyvenue/name.md)
  The name of the Home to which the venue corresponds.
### Decoding
- [init(from: any Decoder) throws](energyvenue/init(from:).md)
  Creates a new instance by decoding from the given decoder.
### Instance Methods
- [func encode(to: any Encoder) throws](energyvenue/encode(to:).md)
  Encodes this value into the given encoder.
### Type Aliases
- [EnergyVenue.ID](energyvenue/id-swift.typealias.md)
  A type representing the stable identity of the entity associated with an instance.

## Relationships

### Conforms To
- [Decodable](../Swift/Decodable.md)
- [Encodable](../Swift/Encodable.md)
- [Identifiable](../Swift/Identifiable.md)
- [Sendable](../Swift/Sendable.md)
- [SendableMetatype](../Swift/SendableMetatype.md)

## See Also

- [struct ElectricHVACLoadEvent](electrichvacloadevent.md)
  A measurement of the electricity consumed by an HVAC system.
- [struct ElectricVehicleLoadEvent](electricvehicleloadevent.md)
  A measurement of the electricity consumed or generated by an electric vehicle while connected to a charger.
- [enum ElectricityFlowDirection](electricityflowdirection.md)
  Information about which direction the electricity moves.
- [protocol ElectricalLoadEventProtocol](electricalloadeventprotocol.md)
  A type that can represent an electrical load event.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/energykit/energyvenue)*