# CGDisplayStreamUpdate

**Framework**: Core Graphics  
**Kind**: class

A reference to frame update’s metadata.

**Availability**:
- Mac Catalyst ?+
- macOS ?+

## Declaration

```swift
class CGDisplayStreamUpdate
```

#### Overview

This data type encapsulates information about how the frame changed since the previous frame delivered by a display stream. The metadata about the frame describes the portions of the screen that were redrawn and the portions of the screen that were moved from one place to another. You can merge multiple updates into a single update.

## Relationships

### Conforms To
- [Equatable](../Swift/Equatable.md)
- [Hashable](../Swift/Hashable.md)

## See Also

- [typealias CGButtonCount](cgbuttoncount.md)
  Represents the number of buttons being set in a synthetic mouse event.
- [typealias CGCharCode](cgcharcode.md)
  Represents a character generated by pressing one or more keys on a keyboard.
- [typealias CGDirectDisplayID](cgdirectdisplayid.md)
  A unique identifier for an attached display.
- [typealias CGDisplayBlendFraction](cgdisplayblendfraction.md)
  The percentage of blend color used in a fade operation.
- [typealias CGDisplayConfigRef](cgdisplayconfigref.md)
  A reference to a display configuration transaction.
- [typealias CGDisplayCount](cgdisplaycount.md)
  The number of displays in various lists.
- [typealias CGDisplayErr](cgdisplayerr.md)
  A uniform type for result codes returned by functions in Quartz Display Services.
- [typealias CGDisplayFadeInterval](cgdisplayfadeinterval.md)
  The duration in seconds of a fade operation or a fade hardware reservation.
- [typealias CGDisplayFadeReservationToken](cgdisplayfadereservationtoken.md)
  A token issued by Quartz when reserving one or more displays for a fade operation during a specified interval.
- [class CGDisplayMode](cgdisplaymode.md)
  A reference to a display mode object.
- [typealias CGDisplayReconfigurationCallBack](cgdisplayreconfigurationcallback.md)
  A client-supplied callback function that’s invoked whenever the configuration of a local display is changed.
- [typealias CGDisplayReservationInterval](cgdisplayreservationinterval.md)
  The time interval for a fade reservation.
- [class CGDisplayStream](cgdisplaystream.md)
  A reference to a display stream object.
- [typealias CGDisplayStreamFrameAvailableHandler](cgdisplaystreamframeavailablehandler.md)
  A block called when a data stream has a new frame event to process.
- [class CGEvent](cgevent.md)
  Defines an opaque type that represents a low-level hardware event.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/coregraphics/cgdisplaystreamupdate)*