# CGDisplayStream

**Framework**: Core Graphics  
**Kind**: class

A reference to a display stream object.

**Availability**:
- Mac Catalyst ?+
- macOS ?+

## Declaration

```swift
class CGDisplayStream
```

#### Overview

This data type streams the contents of a display to your app. The contents can be scaled or converted to a different color space. You can also choose to capture only a portion of a display. Your update handler can be called either from a traditional`CFRunLoop` or on a dispatch queue.

## Topics

### Type Properties
- [class let yCbCrMatrix_ITU_R_601_4: CFString](cgdisplaystream/ycbcrmatrix_itu_r_601_4.md)
  Specifies the YCbCr to RGB conversion matrix for standard digital television (ITU R 601) images.
- [class let yCbCrMatrix_ITU_R_709_2: CFString](cgdisplaystream/ycbcrmatrix_itu_r_709_2.md)
  Specifies the YCbCr to RGB conversion matrix for HDTV digital television (ITU R 709) images.
- [class let yCbCrMatrix_SMPTE_240M_1995: CFString](cgdisplaystream/ycbcrmatrix_smpte_240m_1995.md)
  Specifies the YCbCR to RGB conversion matrix for 1920 x 1135 HDTV (SMPTE 240M 1995).

## Relationships

### Conforms To
- [Equatable](../Swift/Equatable.md)
- [Hashable](../Swift/Hashable.md)

## See Also

- [typealias CGButtonCount](cgbuttoncount.md)
  Represents the number of buttons being set in a synthetic mouse event.
- [typealias CGCharCode](cgcharcode.md)
  Represents a character generated by pressing one or more keys on a keyboard.
- [typealias CGDirectDisplayID](cgdirectdisplayid.md)
  A unique identifier for an attached display.
- [typealias CGDisplayBlendFraction](cgdisplayblendfraction.md)
  The percentage of blend color used in a fade operation.
- [typealias CGDisplayConfigRef](cgdisplayconfigref.md)
  A reference to a display configuration transaction.
- [typealias CGDisplayCount](cgdisplaycount.md)
  The number of displays in various lists.
- [typealias CGDisplayErr](cgdisplayerr.md)
  A uniform type for result codes returned by functions in Quartz Display Services.
- [typealias CGDisplayFadeInterval](cgdisplayfadeinterval.md)
  The duration in seconds of a fade operation or a fade hardware reservation.
- [typealias CGDisplayFadeReservationToken](cgdisplayfadereservationtoken.md)
  A token issued by Quartz when reserving one or more displays for a fade operation during a specified interval.
- [class CGDisplayMode](cgdisplaymode.md)
  A reference to a display mode object.
- [typealias CGDisplayReconfigurationCallBack](cgdisplayreconfigurationcallback.md)
  A client-supplied callback function that’s invoked whenever the configuration of a local display is changed.
- [typealias CGDisplayReservationInterval](cgdisplayreservationinterval.md)
  The time interval for a fade reservation.
- [typealias CGDisplayStreamFrameAvailableHandler](cgdisplaystreamframeavailablehandler.md)
  A block called when a data stream has a new frame event to process.
- [class CGDisplayStreamUpdate](cgdisplaystreamupdate.md)
  A reference to frame update’s metadata.
- [class CGEvent](cgevent.md)
  Defines an opaque type that represents a low-level hardware event.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/coregraphics/cgdisplaystream)*