# CGDirectDisplayID

**Framework**: Core Graphics  
**Kind**: typealias

A unique identifier for an attached display.

**Availability**:
- Mac Catalyst ?+
- macOS ?+

## Declaration

```swift
typealias CGDirectDisplayID = UInt32
```

#### Discussion

In Quartz, the term  refers to a graphics hardware system consisting of a framebuffer, a color correction (gamma) table, and possibly an attached monitor. If no monitor is attached, a display is characterized as offline.

When a monitor is attached, Quartz assigns a unique display identifier (ID). A display ID can persist across processes and typically remains constant until the machine is restarted.

When assigning a display ID, Quartz considers the following parameters:

- Vendor
- Model
- Serial number
- Position in the I/O Kit registry

For information about how to obtain a display ID, see [`Finding Displays`](quartz-display-services#Finding-Displays.md).

## See Also

- [typealias CGButtonCount](cgbuttoncount.md)
  Represents the number of buttons being set in a synthetic mouse event.
- [typealias CGCharCode](cgcharcode.md)
  Represents a character generated by pressing one or more keys on a keyboard.
- [typealias CGDisplayBlendFraction](cgdisplayblendfraction.md)
  The percentage of blend color used in a fade operation.
- [typealias CGDisplayConfigRef](cgdisplayconfigref.md)
  A reference to a display configuration transaction.
- [typealias CGDisplayCount](cgdisplaycount.md)
  The number of displays in various lists.
- [typealias CGDisplayErr](cgdisplayerr.md)
  A uniform type for result codes returned by functions in Quartz Display Services.
- [typealias CGDisplayFadeInterval](cgdisplayfadeinterval.md)
  The duration in seconds of a fade operation or a fade hardware reservation.
- [typealias CGDisplayFadeReservationToken](cgdisplayfadereservationtoken.md)
  A token issued by Quartz when reserving one or more displays for a fade operation during a specified interval.
- [class CGDisplayMode](cgdisplaymode.md)
  A reference to a display mode object.
- [typealias CGDisplayReconfigurationCallBack](cgdisplayreconfigurationcallback.md)
  A client-supplied callback function that’s invoked whenever the configuration of a local display is changed.
- [typealias CGDisplayReservationInterval](cgdisplayreservationinterval.md)
  The time interval for a fade reservation.
- [class CGDisplayStream](cgdisplaystream.md)
  A reference to a display stream object.
- [typealias CGDisplayStreamFrameAvailableHandler](cgdisplaystreamframeavailablehandler.md)
  A block called when a data stream has a new frame event to process.
- [class CGDisplayStreamUpdate](cgdisplaystreamupdate.md)
  A reference to frame update’s metadata.
- [class CGEvent](cgevent.md)
  Defines an opaque type that represents a low-level hardware event.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/coregraphics/cgdirectdisplayid)*