# CGDisplayConfigRef

**Framework**: Core Graphics  
**Kind**: typealias

A reference to a display configuration transaction.

**Availability**:
- Mac Catalyst ?+
- macOS ?+

## Declaration

```swift
typealias CGDisplayConfigRef = OpaquePointer
```

#### Discussion

This data type makes it possible to:

- Create a new display configuration transaction using the function [`CGBeginDisplayConfiguration(_:)`](cgbegindisplayconfiguration(_:).md)
- Record a set of configuration changes, each bound to one or more displays
- Apply the changes in a single transaction using the function [`CGCompleteDisplayConfiguration(_:_:)`](cgcompletedisplayconfiguration(_:_:).md), or discard the changes using the function [`CGCancelDisplayConfiguration(_:)`](cgcanceldisplayconfiguration(_:).md)

There are no restrictions on the order in which you accumulate configuration changes in a transaction.

Configuration changes sometimes conflict with each other. For example, a new origin might be rendered invalid by a subsequent configuration change.

If possible, Quartz uses a “best fit” strategy to resolve conflicts between configuration changes. For example, when you change the resolution of a single display in a two-display system, Quartz automatically retiles the displays to prevent separation or overlap of the adjoining edges.

## See Also

- [typealias CGButtonCount](cgbuttoncount.md)
  Represents the number of buttons being set in a synthetic mouse event.
- [typealias CGCharCode](cgcharcode.md)
  Represents a character generated by pressing one or more keys on a keyboard.
- [typealias CGDirectDisplayID](cgdirectdisplayid.md)
  A unique identifier for an attached display.
- [typealias CGDisplayBlendFraction](cgdisplayblendfraction.md)
  The percentage of blend color used in a fade operation.
- [typealias CGDisplayCount](cgdisplaycount.md)
  The number of displays in various lists.
- [typealias CGDisplayErr](cgdisplayerr.md)
  A uniform type for result codes returned by functions in Quartz Display Services.
- [typealias CGDisplayFadeInterval](cgdisplayfadeinterval.md)
  The duration in seconds of a fade operation or a fade hardware reservation.
- [typealias CGDisplayFadeReservationToken](cgdisplayfadereservationtoken.md)
  A token issued by Quartz when reserving one or more displays for a fade operation during a specified interval.
- [class CGDisplayMode](cgdisplaymode.md)
  A reference to a display mode object.
- [typealias CGDisplayReconfigurationCallBack](cgdisplayreconfigurationcallback.md)
  A client-supplied callback function that’s invoked whenever the configuration of a local display is changed.
- [typealias CGDisplayReservationInterval](cgdisplayreservationinterval.md)
  The time interval for a fade reservation.
- [class CGDisplayStream](cgdisplaystream.md)
  A reference to a display stream object.
- [typealias CGDisplayStreamFrameAvailableHandler](cgdisplaystreamframeavailablehandler.md)
  A block called when a data stream has a new frame event to process.
- [class CGDisplayStreamUpdate](cgdisplaystreamupdate.md)
  A reference to frame update’s metadata.
- [class CGEvent](cgevent.md)
  Defines an opaque type that represents a low-level hardware event.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/coregraphics/cgdisplayconfigref)*