# CGDisplayMode

**Framework**: Core Graphics  
**Kind**: class

A reference to a display mode object.

**Availability**:
- Mac Catalyst ?+
- macOS ?+

## Declaration

```swift
class CGDisplayMode
```

#### Overview

A display mode is a set of properties (such as width, height, pixel depth, and refresh rate), and options (such as stretched LCD panel filling). For more information see [`Creating and Managing Display Modes`](quartz-display-services#Creating-and-Managing-Display-Modes.md) or [`Getting Information About a Display Mode`](quartz-display-services#Getting-Information-About-a-Display-Mode.md).

## Topics

### Instance Properties
- [var height: Int](cgdisplaymode/height.md)
  Returns the height of the specified display mode.
- [var ioDisplayModeID: Int32](cgdisplaymode/iodisplaymodeid.md)
  Returns the I/O Kit display mode ID of the specified display mode.
- [var ioFlags: UInt32](cgdisplaymode/ioflags.md)
  Returns the I/O Kit flags of the specified display mode.
- [var pixelHeight: Int](cgdisplaymode/pixelheight.md)
- [var pixelWidth: Int](cgdisplaymode/pixelwidth.md)
- [var refreshRate: Double](cgdisplaymode/refreshrate.md)
  Returns the refresh rate of the specified display mode.
- [var width: Int](cgdisplaymode/width.md)
  Returns the width of the specified display mode.
### Type Properties
- [class var typeID: CFTypeID](cgdisplaymode/typeid.md)
  Returns the type identifier of Quartz display modes.
### Instance Methods
- [var pixelEncoding: CFString?](cgdisplaymode/pixelencoding.md)
  Returns the pixel encoding of the specified display mode.
- [func isUsableForDesktopGUI() -> Bool](cgdisplaymode/isusablefordesktopgui.md)
  Returns a Boolean value indicating whether the specified display mode is usable for a desktop graphical user interface.

## Relationships

### Conforms To
- [Equatable](../Swift/Equatable.md)
- [Hashable](../Swift/Hashable.md)

## See Also

- [typealias CGButtonCount](cgbuttoncount.md)
  Represents the number of buttons being set in a synthetic mouse event.
- [typealias CGCharCode](cgcharcode.md)
  Represents a character generated by pressing one or more keys on a keyboard.
- [typealias CGDirectDisplayID](cgdirectdisplayid.md)
  A unique identifier for an attached display.
- [typealias CGDisplayBlendFraction](cgdisplayblendfraction.md)
  The percentage of blend color used in a fade operation.
- [typealias CGDisplayConfigRef](cgdisplayconfigref.md)
  A reference to a display configuration transaction.
- [typealias CGDisplayCount](cgdisplaycount.md)
  The number of displays in various lists.
- [typealias CGDisplayErr](cgdisplayerr.md)
  A uniform type for result codes returned by functions in Quartz Display Services.
- [typealias CGDisplayFadeInterval](cgdisplayfadeinterval.md)
  The duration in seconds of a fade operation or a fade hardware reservation.
- [typealias CGDisplayFadeReservationToken](cgdisplayfadereservationtoken.md)
  A token issued by Quartz when reserving one or more displays for a fade operation during a specified interval.
- [typealias CGDisplayReconfigurationCallBack](cgdisplayreconfigurationcallback.md)
  A client-supplied callback function that’s invoked whenever the configuration of a local display is changed.
- [typealias CGDisplayReservationInterval](cgdisplayreservationinterval.md)
  The time interval for a fade reservation.
- [class CGDisplayStream](cgdisplaystream.md)
  A reference to a display stream object.
- [typealias CGDisplayStreamFrameAvailableHandler](cgdisplaystreamframeavailablehandler.md)
  A block called when a data stream has a new frame event to process.
- [class CGDisplayStreamUpdate](cgdisplaystreamupdate.md)
  A reference to frame update’s metadata.
- [class CGEvent](cgevent.md)
  Defines an opaque type that represents a low-level hardware event.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/coregraphics/cgdisplaymode)*