# CGEventTapCallBack

**Framework**: Core Graphics  
**Kind**: typealias

A client-supplied callback function that’s invoked whenever an associated event tap receives a Quartz event.

**Availability**:
- Mac Catalyst ?+
- macOS ?+

## Declaration

```swift
typealias CGEventTapCallBack = (CGEventTapProxy, CGEventType, CGEvent, UnsafeMutableRawPointer?) -> Unmanaged<CGEvent>?
```

#### Discussion

If the event tap is an active filter, your callback function should return one of the following:

- The (possibly modified) event that is passed in. This event is passed back to the event system.
- A newly-constructed event. After the new event has been passed back to the event system, the new event will be released along with the original event.
- `NULL` if the event passed in is to be deleted.

If the event tap is an passive listener, your callback function may return the event that is passed in, or `NULL`. In either case, the event stream is not affected.

## Parameters

- `proxy`: A proxy for the event tap. See  . This callback function may pass this proxy to other functions such as the event-posting routines.
- `type`: The event type of this event. See  .
- `event`: The incoming event. This event is owned by the caller, and you do not need to release it.
- `refcon`: A pointer to user-defined data. You specify this pointer when you create the event tap. Several different event taps could use the same callback function, each tap with its own user-defined data.

## See Also

- [typealias CGButtonCount](cgbuttoncount.md)
  Represents the number of buttons being set in a synthetic mouse event.
- [typealias CGCharCode](cgcharcode.md)
  Represents a character generated by pressing one or more keys on a keyboard.
- [typealias CGDirectDisplayID](cgdirectdisplayid.md)
  A unique identifier for an attached display.
- [typealias CGDisplayBlendFraction](cgdisplayblendfraction.md)
  The percentage of blend color used in a fade operation.
- [typealias CGDisplayConfigRef](cgdisplayconfigref.md)
  A reference to a display configuration transaction.
- [typealias CGDisplayCount](cgdisplaycount.md)
  The number of displays in various lists.
- [typealias CGDisplayErr](cgdisplayerr.md)
  A uniform type for result codes returned by functions in Quartz Display Services.
- [typealias CGDisplayFadeInterval](cgdisplayfadeinterval.md)
  The duration in seconds of a fade operation or a fade hardware reservation.
- [typealias CGDisplayFadeReservationToken](cgdisplayfadereservationtoken.md)
  A token issued by Quartz when reserving one or more displays for a fade operation during a specified interval.
- [class CGDisplayMode](cgdisplaymode.md)
  A reference to a display mode object.
- [typealias CGDisplayReconfigurationCallBack](cgdisplayreconfigurationcallback.md)
  A client-supplied callback function that’s invoked whenever the configuration of a local display is changed.
- [typealias CGDisplayReservationInterval](cgdisplayreservationinterval.md)
  The time interval for a fade reservation.
- [class CGDisplayStream](cgdisplaystream.md)
  A reference to a display stream object.
- [typealias CGDisplayStreamFrameAvailableHandler](cgdisplaystreamframeavailablehandler.md)
  A block called when a data stream has a new frame event to process.
- [class CGDisplayStreamUpdate](cgdisplaystreamupdate.md)
  A reference to frame update’s metadata.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/coregraphics/cgeventtapcallback)*