# CGEventSource

**Framework**: Core Graphics  
**Kind**: class

Defines an opaque type that represents the source of a Quartz event.

**Availability**:
- Mac Catalyst ?+
- macOS ?+

## Declaration

```swift
class CGEventSource
```

#### Overview

A Quartz event source is an object that contains accumulated state related to event generation and event posting. Every event source has an associated global event state table called a source state. When you call [`init(stateID:)`](cgeventsource/init(stateid:).md) to create an event source, you specify which source state to use. For more information about source states, see [`CGEventSourceStateID`](cgeventsourcestateid.md).

A typical use of an event source would be to obtain the source from a Quartz event received by an event tap callback function, and then to use that source for any new events created as a result of the received event. This has the effect of marking the events as being related.

This opaque type is derived from CFType and inherits the properties that all Core Foundation types have in common. For more information, see doc://com.apple.documentation/documentation/corefoundation/cftype.

## Topics

### Initializers
- [init?(event: CGEvent?)](cgeventsource/init(event:).md)
  Returns a Quartz event source created from an existing Quartz event.
- [init?(stateID: CGEventSourceStateID)](cgeventsource/init(stateid:).md)
  Returns a Quartz event source created with a specified source state.
### Instance Properties
- [var keyboardType: CGEventSourceKeyboardType](cgeventsource/keyboardtype.md)
  Returns the keyboard type to be used with a Quartz event source.
- [var localEventsSuppressionInterval: CFTimeInterval](cgeventsource/localeventssuppressioninterval.md)
  Returns the interval that local hardware events may be suppressed following the posting of a Quartz event.
- [var pixelsPerLine: Double](cgeventsource/pixelsperline.md)
  Gets the scale of pixels per line in a scrolling event source.
- [var sourceStateID: CGEventSourceStateID](cgeventsource/sourcestateid.md)
  Returns the source state associated with a Quartz event source.
- [var userData: Int64](cgeventsource/userdata.md)
  Returns the 64-bit user-specified data for a Quartz event source.
### Type Properties
- [class var typeID: CFTypeID](cgeventsource/typeid.md)
  Returns the type identifier for the opaque type `CGEventSourceRef`.
### Instance Methods
- [func getLocalEventsFilterDuringSuppressionState(CGEventSuppressionState) -> CGEventFilterMask](cgeventsource/getlocaleventsfilterduringsuppressionstate(_:).md)
  Returns the mask that indicates which classes of local hardware events are enabled during event suppression.
- [func setLocalEventsFilterDuringSuppressionState(CGEventFilterMask, state: CGEventSuppressionState)](cgeventsource/setlocaleventsfilterduringsuppressionstate(_:state:).md)
  Sets the mask that indicates which classes of local hardware events are enabled during event suppression.
### Type Methods
- [class func buttonState(CGEventSourceStateID, button: CGMouseButton) -> Bool](cgeventsource/buttonstate(_:button:).md)
  Returns a Boolean value indicating the current button state of a Quartz event source.
- [class func counterForEventType(CGEventSourceStateID, eventType: CGEventType) -> UInt32](cgeventsource/counterforeventtype(_:eventtype:).md)
  Returns a count of events of a given type seen since the window server started.
- [class func flagsState(CGEventSourceStateID) -> CGEventFlags](cgeventsource/flagsstate(_:).md)
  Returns the current flags of a Quartz event source.
- [class func keyState(CGEventSourceStateID, key: CGKeyCode) -> Bool](cgeventsource/keystate(_:key:).md)
  Returns a Boolean value indicating the current keyboard state of a Quartz event source.
- [class func secondsSinceLastEventType(CGEventSourceStateID, eventType: CGEventType) -> CFTimeInterval](cgeventsource/secondssincelasteventtype(_:eventtype:).md)
  Returns the elapsed time since the last event for a Quartz event source.

## Relationships

### Conforms To
- [Equatable](../Swift/Equatable.md)
- [Hashable](../Swift/Hashable.md)

## See Also

- [typealias CGButtonCount](cgbuttoncount.md)
  Represents the number of buttons being set in a synthetic mouse event.
- [typealias CGCharCode](cgcharcode.md)
  Represents a character generated by pressing one or more keys on a keyboard.
- [typealias CGDirectDisplayID](cgdirectdisplayid.md)
  A unique identifier for an attached display.
- [typealias CGDisplayBlendFraction](cgdisplayblendfraction.md)
  The percentage of blend color used in a fade operation.
- [typealias CGDisplayConfigRef](cgdisplayconfigref.md)
  A reference to a display configuration transaction.
- [typealias CGDisplayCount](cgdisplaycount.md)
  The number of displays in various lists.
- [typealias CGDisplayErr](cgdisplayerr.md)
  A uniform type for result codes returned by functions in Quartz Display Services.
- [typealias CGDisplayFadeInterval](cgdisplayfadeinterval.md)
  The duration in seconds of a fade operation or a fade hardware reservation.
- [typealias CGDisplayFadeReservationToken](cgdisplayfadereservationtoken.md)
  A token issued by Quartz when reserving one or more displays for a fade operation during a specified interval.
- [class CGDisplayMode](cgdisplaymode.md)
  A reference to a display mode object.
- [typealias CGDisplayReconfigurationCallBack](cgdisplayreconfigurationcallback.md)
  A client-supplied callback function that’s invoked whenever the configuration of a local display is changed.
- [typealias CGDisplayReservationInterval](cgdisplayreservationinterval.md)
  The time interval for a fade reservation.
- [class CGDisplayStream](cgdisplaystream.md)
  A reference to a display stream object.
- [typealias CGDisplayStreamFrameAvailableHandler](cgdisplaystreamframeavailablehandler.md)
  A block called when a data stream has a new frame event to process.
- [class CGDisplayStreamUpdate](cgdisplaystreamupdate.md)
  A reference to frame update’s metadata.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/coregraphics/cgeventsource)*