# CGGammaValue

**Framework**: Core Graphics  
**Kind**: typealias

A value used to map a color generated in software to a color supported by the display hardware.

**Availability**:
- Mac Catalyst ?+
- macOS ?+

## Declaration

```swift
typealias CGGammaValue = Float
```

#### Discussion

In macOS, the Display panel in System Preferences is used to set the default gamma for a display. Quartz also allows an application to provide its own custom gamma information, using functions such as [`CGSetDisplayTransferByTable(_:_:_:_:_:)`](cgsetdisplaytransferbytable(_:_:_:_:_:).md) and [`CGSetDisplayTransferByFormula(_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:)`](cgsetdisplaytransferbyformula(_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:).md).

These functions take `CGGammaValue` arguments that specify:

- A set of gamma table entries ranging from 0 to 1
- The positive real coefficients in a gamma equation

## See Also

- [typealias CGButtonCount](cgbuttoncount.md)
  Represents the number of buttons being set in a synthetic mouse event.
- [typealias CGCharCode](cgcharcode.md)
  Represents a character generated by pressing one or more keys on a keyboard.
- [typealias CGDirectDisplayID](cgdirectdisplayid.md)
  A unique identifier for an attached display.
- [typealias CGDisplayBlendFraction](cgdisplayblendfraction.md)
  The percentage of blend color used in a fade operation.
- [typealias CGDisplayConfigRef](cgdisplayconfigref.md)
  A reference to a display configuration transaction.
- [typealias CGDisplayCount](cgdisplaycount.md)
  The number of displays in various lists.
- [typealias CGDisplayErr](cgdisplayerr.md)
  A uniform type for result codes returned by functions in Quartz Display Services.
- [typealias CGDisplayFadeInterval](cgdisplayfadeinterval.md)
  The duration in seconds of a fade operation or a fade hardware reservation.
- [typealias CGDisplayFadeReservationToken](cgdisplayfadereservationtoken.md)
  A token issued by Quartz when reserving one or more displays for a fade operation during a specified interval.
- [class CGDisplayMode](cgdisplaymode.md)
  A reference to a display mode object.
- [typealias CGDisplayReconfigurationCallBack](cgdisplayreconfigurationcallback.md)
  A client-supplied callback function that’s invoked whenever the configuration of a local display is changed.
- [typealias CGDisplayReservationInterval](cgdisplayreservationinterval.md)
  The time interval for a fade reservation.
- [class CGDisplayStream](cgdisplaystream.md)
  A reference to a display stream object.
- [typealias CGDisplayStreamFrameAvailableHandler](cgdisplaystreamframeavailablehandler.md)
  A block called when a data stream has a new frame event to process.
- [class CGDisplayStreamUpdate](cgdisplaystreamupdate.md)
  A reference to frame update’s metadata.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/coregraphics/cggammavalue)*