# CGScreenUpdateMoveCallback

**Framework**: Core Graphics  
**Kind**: typealias

A client-supplied callback function invoked when an area of the display is moved.

**Availability**:
- Mac Catalyst ?+
- macOS ?+

## Declaration

```swift
typealias CGScreenUpdateMoveCallback = (CGScreenUpdateMoveDelta, Int, UnsafePointer<CGRect>, UnsafeMutableRawPointer?) -> Void
```

#### Discussion

To register a screen-move callback function, you call the function [`CGScreenRegisterMoveCallback(_:_:)`](cgscreenregistermovecallback(_:_:).md). Quartz invokes your callback function when operations such as window movement or scrolling occur on local displays. When you finish using a callback registration, you should call the function [`CGScreenUnregisterMoveCallback(_:_:)`](cgscreenunregistermovecallback(_:_:).md) to remove it.

Note that a single rectangle may occupy multiple displays, either by overlapping the displays or by residing on coincident displays when mirroring is active. You can use the function [`CGGetDisplaysWithRect(_:_:_:_:)`](cggetdisplayswithrect(_:_:_:_:).md) to determine the displays a rectangle occupies.

## Parameters

- `delta`: The distance, in pixel unites, that the display area has moved.
- `count`: The number of rectangles in the   parameter.
- `rectArray`: A list of the rectangles in the moved areas, specified in the global display coordinate space. The origin is the upper-left corner of the main display. The rectangles describe the area prior to the move operation. You should not modify or deallocate memory pointed to by  .
- `userParameter`: The user data you specify when you register this callback.

## See Also

- [typealias CGButtonCount](cgbuttoncount.md)
  Represents the number of buttons being set in a synthetic mouse event.
- [typealias CGCharCode](cgcharcode.md)
  Represents a character generated by pressing one or more keys on a keyboard.
- [typealias CGDirectDisplayID](cgdirectdisplayid.md)
  A unique identifier for an attached display.
- [typealias CGDisplayBlendFraction](cgdisplayblendfraction.md)
  The percentage of blend color used in a fade operation.
- [typealias CGDisplayConfigRef](cgdisplayconfigref.md)
  A reference to a display configuration transaction.
- [typealias CGDisplayCount](cgdisplaycount.md)
  The number of displays in various lists.
- [typealias CGDisplayErr](cgdisplayerr.md)
  A uniform type for result codes returned by functions in Quartz Display Services.
- [typealias CGDisplayFadeInterval](cgdisplayfadeinterval.md)
  The duration in seconds of a fade operation or a fade hardware reservation.
- [typealias CGDisplayFadeReservationToken](cgdisplayfadereservationtoken.md)
  A token issued by Quartz when reserving one or more displays for a fade operation during a specified interval.
- [class CGDisplayMode](cgdisplaymode.md)
  A reference to a display mode object.
- [typealias CGDisplayReconfigurationCallBack](cgdisplayreconfigurationcallback.md)
  A client-supplied callback function that’s invoked whenever the configuration of a local display is changed.
- [typealias CGDisplayReservationInterval](cgdisplayreservationinterval.md)
  The time interval for a fade reservation.
- [class CGDisplayStream](cgdisplaystream.md)
  A reference to a display stream object.
- [typealias CGDisplayStreamFrameAvailableHandler](cgdisplaystreamframeavailablehandler.md)
  A block called when a data stream has a new frame event to process.
- [class CGDisplayStreamUpdate](cgdisplaystreamupdate.md)
  A reference to frame update’s metadata.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/coregraphics/cgscreenupdatemovecallback)*