# Core Graphics Data Types

**Framework**: Core Graphics

## Topics

### Data Types
- [typealias CGButtonCount](cgbuttoncount.md)
  Represents the number of buttons being set in a synthetic mouse event.
- [typealias CGCharCode](cgcharcode.md)
  Represents a character generated by pressing one or more keys on a keyboard.
- [typealias CGDirectDisplayID](cgdirectdisplayid.md)
  A unique identifier for an attached display.
- [typealias CGDisplayBlendFraction](cgdisplayblendfraction.md)
  The percentage of blend color used in a fade operation.
- [typealias CGDisplayConfigRef](cgdisplayconfigref.md)
  A reference to a display configuration transaction.
- [typealias CGDisplayCount](cgdisplaycount.md)
  The number of displays in various lists.
- [typealias CGDisplayErr](cgdisplayerr.md)
  A uniform type for result codes returned by functions in Quartz Display Services.
- [typealias CGDisplayFadeInterval](cgdisplayfadeinterval.md)
  The duration in seconds of a fade operation or a fade hardware reservation.
- [typealias CGDisplayFadeReservationToken](cgdisplayfadereservationtoken.md)
  A token issued by Quartz when reserving one or more displays for a fade operation during a specified interval.
- [class CGDisplayMode](cgdisplaymode.md)
  A reference to a display mode object.
- [typealias CGDisplayReconfigurationCallBack](cgdisplayreconfigurationcallback.md)
  A client-supplied callback function that’s invoked whenever the configuration of a local display is changed.
- [typealias CGDisplayReservationInterval](cgdisplayreservationinterval.md)
  The time interval for a fade reservation.
- [class CGDisplayStream](cgdisplaystream.md)
  A reference to a display stream object.
- [typealias CGDisplayStreamFrameAvailableHandler](cgdisplaystreamframeavailablehandler.md)
  A block called when a data stream has a new frame event to process.
- [class CGDisplayStreamUpdate](cgdisplaystreamupdate.md)
  A reference to frame update’s metadata.
- [class CGEvent](cgevent.md)
  Defines an opaque type that represents a low-level hardware event.
- [typealias CGEventErr](cgeventerr.md)
- [typealias CGEventMask](cgeventmask.md)
  Defines a mask that identifies the set of Quartz events to be observed in an event tap.
- [class CGEventSource](cgeventsource.md)
  Defines an opaque type that represents the source of a Quartz event.
- [typealias CGEventSourceKeyboardType](cgeventsourcekeyboardtype.md)
  Defines a code that represents the type of keyboard used with a specified event source.
- [typealias CGEventTapCallBack](cgeventtapcallback.md)
  A client-supplied callback function that’s invoked whenever an associated event tap receives a Quartz event.
- [typealias CGEventTapInformation](cgeventtapinformation.md)
  Defines the structure used to report information about event taps.
- [typealias CGEventTapProxy](cgeventtapproxy.md)
  Defines an opaque type that represents state within the client application that’s associated with an event tap.
- [typealias CGEventTimestamp](cgeventtimestamp.md)
  Defines the elapsed time in nanoseconds since startup that a Quartz event occurred.
- [typealias CGGammaValue](cggammavalue.md)
  A value used to map a color generated in software to a color supported by the display hardware.
- [typealias CGKeyCode](cgkeycode.md)
  Represents the virtual key codes used in keyboard events.
- [typealias CGOpenGLDisplayMask](cgopengldisplaymask.md)
  A bitmask used in OpenGL to specify a set of attached displays.
- [typealias CGRectCount](cgrectcount.md)
  The size of an array of Quartz rectangles.
- [typealias CGRefreshRate](cgrefreshrate.md)
  A display’s refresh rate in frames per second.
- [typealias CGScreenRefreshCallback](cgscreenrefreshcallback.md)
  A client-supplied callback function that’s invoked when an area of the display is modified or refreshed.
- [typealias CGScreenUpdateMoveCallback](cgscreenupdatemovecallback.md)
  A client-supplied callback function invoked when an area of the display is moved.
- [typealias CGWheelCount](cgwheelcount.md)
  Represents the number of wheels being set in a scroll wheel event.
- [typealias CGWindowID](cgwindowid.md)
  The data type used to store window identifiers.
- [typealias CGWindowLevel](cgwindowlevel.md)
  A level assigned to a window by an application framework.
- [typealias CGErrorCallback](cgerrorcallback.md)
- [typealias CGPDFArrayApplierBlock](cgpdfarrayapplierblock.md)
- [typealias CGPDFDictionaryApplierBlock](cgpdfdictionaryapplierblock.md)
- [struct CGPDFTagProperty](cgpdftagproperty.md)
- [typealias CGPSConverterBeginDocumentCallback](cgpsconverterbegindocumentcallback.md)
  Performs custom tasks at the beginning of a PostScript conversion process.
- [typealias CGPSConverterBeginPageCallback](cgpsconverterbeginpagecallback.md)
  Performs custom tasks at the beginning of each page in a PostScript conversion process.
- [typealias CGPSConverterEndDocumentCallback](cgpsconverterenddocumentcallback.md)
  Performs custom tasks at the end of a PostScript conversion process.
- [typealias CGPSConverterEndPageCallback](cgpsconverterendpagecallback.md)
  Performs custom tasks at the end of each page of a PostScript conversion process.
- [typealias CGPSConverterMessageCallback](cgpsconvertermessagecallback.md)
  Passes messages generated during a PostScript conversion process.
- [typealias CGPSConverterProgressCallback](cgpsconverterprogresscallback.md)
  Reports progress periodically during a PostScript conversion process.
- [typealias CGPSConverterReleaseInfoCallback](cgpsconverterreleaseinfocallback.md)
  Performs custom tasks when a PostScript converter is released.
- [typealias CGPathApplyBlock](cgpathapplyblock.md)

## See Also

- [Core Graphics Structures](core-graphics-structures.md)
- [Core Graphics Enumerations](core-graphics-enumerations.md)
- [Core Graphics Constants](core-graphics-constants.md)
- [Core Graphics Functions](core-graphics-functions.md)


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/coregraphics/core-graphics-data-types)*