# KeyPress

**Framework**: SwiftUI  
**Kind**: struct

**Availability**:
- iOS 17.0+
- iPadOS 17.0+
- Mac Catalyst 17.0+
- macOS 14.0+
- tvOS 17.0+
- visionOS 1.0+

## Declaration

```swift
struct KeyPress
```

## Topics

### Getting the keypress
- [let key: KeyEquivalent](keypress/key.md)
  The key equivalent value for the pressed key.
- [let characters: String](keypress/characters.md)
  The characters generated by the pressed key as if no modifier key applies.
- [let modifiers: EventModifiers](keypress/modifiers.md)
  The set of modifier keys the user held in addition to the pressed key.
### Getting the phase of the keypress
- [let phase: KeyPress.Phases](keypress/phase.md)
  The phase of the key-press event (`.down`, `.repeat`, or `.up`).
- [KeyPress.Phases](keypress/phases.md)
  Options for matching different phases of a key-press event.
### Getting the result
- [KeyPress.Result](keypress/result.md)
  A result value returned from a key-press action that indicates whether the action consumed the event.

## Relationships

### Conforms To
- [Copyable](../Swift/Copyable.md)
- [CustomDebugStringConvertible](../Swift/CustomDebugStringConvertible.md)
- [Sendable](../Swift/Sendable.md)
- [SendableMetatype](../Swift/SendableMetatype.md)

## See Also

- [func onKeyPress(KeyEquivalent, action: () -> KeyPress.Result) -> some View](view/onkeypress(_:action:).md)
  Performs an action if the user presses a key on a hardware keyboard while the view has focus.
- [func onKeyPress(phases: KeyPress.Phases, action: (KeyPress) -> KeyPress.Result) -> some View](view/onkeypress(phases:action:).md)
  Performs an action if the user presses any key on a hardware keyboard while the view has focus.
- [func onKeyPress(KeyEquivalent, phases: KeyPress.Phases, action: (KeyPress) -> KeyPress.Result) -> some View](view/onkeypress(_:phases:action:).md)
  Performs an action if the user presses a key on a hardware keyboard while the view has focus.
- [func onKeyPress(characters: CharacterSet, phases: KeyPress.Phases, action: (KeyPress) -> KeyPress.Result) -> some View](view/onkeypress(characters:phases:action:).md)
  Performs an action if the user presses one or more keys on a hardware keyboard while the view has focus.
- [func onKeyPress(keys: Set<KeyEquivalent>, phases: KeyPress.Phases, action: (KeyPress) -> KeyPress.Result) -> some View](view/onkeypress(keys:phases:action:).md)
  Performs an action if the user presses one or more keys on a hardware keyboard while the view has focus.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/swiftui/keypress)*