# ElectricVehicleLoadEvent.ElectricalMeasurement

**Framework**: EnergyKit  
**Kind**: struct

A description of the electricity consumed or generated by a device.

**Availability**:
- iOS 26.0+ (Beta)
- iPadOS 26.0+ (Beta)
- Mac Catalyst ?+
- macOS 26.0+ (Beta)

## Declaration

```swift
struct ElectricalMeasurement
```

## Topics

### Initializing an electrical measurement
- [init(stateOfCharge: Int, direction: ElectricityFlowDirection, power: Measurement<UnitPower>, energy: Measurement<UnitEnergy>)](electricvehicleloadevent/electricalmeasurement/init(stateofcharge:direction:power:energy:).md)
  Initializes an electrical measurement for the electrical load event.
### Getting the electrical measurements
- [let direction: ElectricityFlowDirection](electricvehicleloadevent/electricalmeasurement/direction.md)
  The electricity being imported or exported to the grid.
- [let energy: Measurement<UnitEnergy>](electricvehicleloadevent/electricalmeasurement/energy.md)
  The reported cumulative energy in milli-watt-hours [mWh] Accumulator is reset on `Session.State.end` The cummulative energy in milli-watt-hours [mWh] of the reporting device rounded to the nearest integer.
- [let stateOfCharge: Int](electricvehicleloadevent/electricalmeasurement/stateofcharge.md)
  The remaining capacity available in a battery An integer ranging from `0` to `100` that’s proportional to the percentage of remaining capacity available in the battery where `0` and `100` correspond to the min and max state of charge respectively.
- [let power: Measurement<UnitPower>](electricvehicleloadevent/electricalmeasurement/power.md)
  The instantaneous power in milli-watts [mW] of the reporting device.
### Decoding
- [init(from: any Decoder) throws](electricvehicleloadevent/electricalmeasurement/init(from:).md)
  Creates a new instance by decoding from the given decoder.
### Instance Methods
- [func encode(to: any Encoder) throws](electricvehicleloadevent/electricalmeasurement/encode(to:).md)
  Encodes this value into the given encoder.

## Relationships

### Conforms To
- [Decodable](../Swift/Decodable.md)
- [Encodable](../Swift/Encodable.md)
- [Sendable](../Swift/Sendable.md)
- [SendableMetatype](../Swift/SendableMetatype.md)

## See Also

- [init(timestamp: Date, measurement: ElectricVehicleLoadEvent.ElectricalMeasurement, session: ElectricVehicleLoadEvent.Session, deviceID: String)](electricvehicleloadevent/init(timestamp:measurement:session:deviceid:).md)
  Creates an electric vehicle load event.
- [ElectricVehicleLoadEvent.Session](electricvehicleloadevent/session-swift.struct.md)
  A session that tracks the event.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/energykit/electricvehicleloadevent/electricalmeasurement)*