# ImmersiveDynamicMask

**Framework**: Immersive Media Support  
**Kind**: struct

A type that holds the information required to dynamically generate an immersive media mask at load time.

**Availability**:
- macOS 26.0+ (Beta)
- visionOS 26.0+ (Beta)

## Declaration

```swift
struct ImmersiveDynamicMask
```

#### Overview

Immersive media dynamic masks are generated by interpolating a set of control points or sample points on the surface of a unit sphere.

## Topics

### Initializers
- [init(from: any Decoder) throws](immersivedynamicmask/init(from:).md)
  Creates a new instance by decoding from the given decoder.
- [init(name: String, maskStereoRelation: ImmersiveDynamicMask.MaskStereoRelation, edgeTreatment: ImmersiveDynamicMask.MaskEdgeTreatment, controlPointInterpolation: ImmersiveDynamicMask.ControlPointInterpolation, leftControlPoints: [simd_float3], rightControlPoints: [simd_float3], edgeWidthInDegrees: Float)](immersivedynamicmask/init(name:maskstereorelation:edgetreatment:controlpointinterpolation:leftcontrolpoints:rightcontrolpoints:edgewidthindegrees:).md)
### Instance Properties
- [var controlPointInterpolation: ImmersiveDynamicMask.ControlPointInterpolation](immersivedynamicmask/controlpointinterpolation-swift.property.md)
  Type of the interpolation method used while processing control points.
- [var edgeTreatment: ImmersiveDynamicMask.MaskEdgeTreatment](immersivedynamicmask/edgetreatment.md)
  The edge treatment type used for the immersive media Mask.
- [var edgeWidthInDegrees: Float](immersivedynamicmask/edgewidthindegrees.md)
  The edge width used for the dynamic mask generation.
- [var leftControlPoints: [simd_float3]](immersivedynamicmask/leftcontrolpoints.md)
  The left eye control points.
- [var maskStereoRelation: ImmersiveDynamicMask.MaskStereoRelation](immersivedynamicmask/maskstereorelation-swift.property.md)
  Represents the stereo relation of the dynamic mask (How left eye mask is related to right eye mask).
- [var name: String](immersivedynamicmask/name.md)
  A unique name string of the dynamic mask.
- [var rightControlPoints: [simd_float3]](immersivedynamicmask/rightcontrolpoints.md)
  The right eye control points.
### Instance Methods
- [func encode(to: any Encoder) throws](immersivedynamicmask/encode(to:).md)
  Encodes this value into the given encoder.
### Enumerations
- [ImmersiveDynamicMask.ControlPointInterpolation](immersivedynamicmask/controlpointinterpolation-swift.enum.md)
  The interpolation methods used while processing control points.
- [ImmersiveDynamicMask.MaskEdgeTreatment](immersivedynamicmask/maskedgetreatment.md)
  Represents edge treatment types for the immersive media mask.
- [ImmersiveDynamicMask.MaskStereoRelation](immersivedynamicmask/maskstereorelation-swift.enum.md)
  An enumeration of the stereo relation of a mask. It determines how left mask relates to the right or vice versa.

## Relationships

### Conforms To
- [Decodable](../Swift/Decodable.md)
- [Encodable](../Swift/Encodable.md)
- [Sendable](../Swift/Sendable.md)
- [SendableMetatype](../Swift/SendableMetatype.md)

## See Also

- [actor VenueDescriptor](venuedescriptor.md)
  The Apple Immersive Media Venue Descriptor is a collection of static metadata necessary with every Apple Immersive Video.
- [struct ImmersiveCamera](immersivecamera.md)
  A structure that holds the required information for an immersive media camera to process and render video frames.
- [struct ImmersiveCameraCalibration](immersivecameracalibration.md)
  A structure that represents immersive media camera calibration data.
- [struct ImmersiveCameraMask](immersivecameramask.md)
  A structure that holds the camera mask type information and its relevant mask name.
- [struct ImmersiveLensDefinition](immersivelensdefinition.md)
  This type holds the ILPD Meirives lens configuration parameters using which a camera calibration type instance can be generated.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/immersivemediasupport/immersivedynamicmask)*