# File System

**Framework**: Foundation

Create, read, write, and examine files and folders in the file system.

## Topics

### File system operations
- [Improving performance and stability when accessing the file system](improving-performance-and-stability-when-accessing-the-file-system.md)
  Prevent data loss and app crashes by interacting with the file system in a coordinated, asynchronous manner and by avoiding unnecessary disk I/O.
- [Using the file system effectively](using-the-file-system-effectively.md)
  Gain access to benefits like automatic backup or purging by using purpose-built directories provided by the system.
- [class FileManager](filemanager.md)
  A convenient interface to the contents of the file system, and the primary means of interacting with it.
- [protocol FileManagerDelegate](filemanagerdelegate.md)
  The interface a file manager’s delegate uses to intervene during operations or if an error occurs.
- [About Apple File System](about-apple-file-system.md)
  Use high-level APIs to get the most out of Apple File System.
### Coordinated file access
- [protocol NSFilePresenter](nsfilepresenter.md)
  The interface a file coordinator uses to inform an object presenting a file about changes to that file made elsewhere in the system.
- [class NSFileAccessIntent](nsfileaccessintent.md)
  The details of a coordinated-read or coordinated-write operation.
- [class NSFileCoordinator](nsfilecoordinator.md)
  An object that coordinates the reading and writing of files and directories among file presenters.
### Managed file access
- [class FileHandle](filehandle.md)
  An object-oriented wrapper for a file descriptor.
- [class NSFileSecurity](nsfilesecurity.md)
  A stub class that encapsulates security information about a file.
- [class NSFileVersion](nsfileversion.md)
  A snapshot of a file at a specific point in time.
- [class FileWrapper](filewrapper.md)
  A representation of a node (a file, directory, or symbolic link) in the file system.
### Errors
- [File System Error Codes](file-system-error-codes.md)
  Recognize common error codes generated by file system operations.

## See Also

- [Archives and Serialization](archives-and-serialization.md)
  Convert objects and values to and from property list, JSON, and other flat binary representations.
- [Settings](settings.md)
  Configure your app using data you store persistently on the local disk or in iCloud.
- [Spotlight](spotlight.md)
  Search for files and other items on the local device, and index your app’s content for searching.
- [iCloud](icloud.md)
  Manage files and key-value data that automatically synchronize among a user’s iCloud devices.
- [Optimizing Your App’s Data for iCloud Backup](optimizing-your-app-s-data-for-icloud-backup.md)
  Minimize the space and time that backups take to create by excluding purgeable and nonpurgeable data from backups.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/file-system)*