# File System Error Codes

**Framework**: Foundation

Recognize common error codes generated by file system operations.

## Topics

### Error Codes
- [var NSFileNoSuchFileError: Int](nsfilenosuchfileerror-swift.var.md)
  A filesystem operation was attempted on a non-existent file.
- [var NSFileLockingError: Int](nsfilelockingerror-swift.var.md)
  The file could not be locked.
- [var NSFileReadUnknownError: Int](nsfilereadunknownerror-swift.var.md)
  Could not read, for unknown reasons.
- [var NSFileReadNoPermissionError: Int](nsfilereadnopermissionerror-swift.var.md)
  Could not read because of a permission problem.
- [var NSFileReadInvalidFileNameError: Int](nsfilereadinvalidfilenameerror-swift.var.md)
  Could not read because of an invalid file name.
- [var NSFileReadCorruptFileError: Int](nsfilereadcorruptfileerror-swift.var.md)
  Could not read because of a corrupted file, bad format, or similar reason.
- [var NSFileReadNoSuchFileError: Int](nsfilereadnosuchfileerror-swift.var.md)
  Could not read because no such file was found.
- [var NSFileReadInapplicableStringEncodingError: Int](nsfilereadinapplicablestringencodingerror-swift.var.md)
  Could not read because the string encoding wasn’t applicable.
- [var NSFileReadUnsupportedSchemeError: Int](nsfilereadunsupportedschemeerror-swift.var.md)
  Could not read because the specified URL scheme is unsupported.
- [var NSFileReadTooLargeError: Int](nsfilereadtoolargeerror-swift.var.md)
  Could not read because the specified file was too large.
- [var NSFileReadUnknownStringEncodingError: Int](nsfilereadunknownstringencodingerror-swift.var.md)
  Could not read because the string coding of the file couldn’t be determined.
- [var NSFileWriteUnknownError: Int](nsfilewriteunknownerror-swift.var.md)
  Could not write, for unknown reasons.
- [var NSFileWriteNoPermissionError: Int](nsfilewritenopermissionerror-swift.var.md)
  Could not write because of a permission problem.
- [var NSFileWriteInvalidFileNameError: Int](nsfilewriteinvalidfilenameerror-swift.var.md)
  Could not write because of an invalid file name.
- [var NSFileWriteFileExistsError: Int](nsfilewritefileexistserror-swift.var.md)
  Could not perform an operation because the destination file already exists.
- [var NSFileWriteInapplicableStringEncodingError: Int](nsfilewriteinapplicablestringencodingerror-swift.var.md)
  Could not write because the string encoding was not applicable.
- [var NSFileWriteUnsupportedSchemeError: Int](nsfilewriteunsupportedschemeerror-swift.var.md)
  Could not write because the specified URL scheme is unsupported.
- [var NSFileWriteOutOfSpaceError: Int](nsfilewriteoutofspaceerror-swift.var.md)
  Could not write because of a lack of disk space.
- [var NSFileWriteVolumeReadOnlyError: Int](nsfilewritevolumereadonlyerror-swift.var.md)
  Could not write because the volume is read-only.
- [var NSFileManagerUnmountBusyError: Int](nsfilemanagerunmountbusyerror-swift.var.md)
  The volume couldn’t be unmounted because it’s in use.
- [var NSFileManagerUnmountUnknownError: Int](nsfilemanagerunmountunknownerror-swift.var.md)
  The volume couldn’t be unmounted, for unknown reasons.
- [var NSFileErrorMinimum: Int](nsfileerrorminimum-swift.var.md)
  The start of the range of error codes reserved for file errors.
- [var NSFileErrorMaximum: Int](nsfileerrormaximum-swift.var.md)
  The end of the range of error codes reserved for file errors.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/file-system-error-codes)*