# NSMetadataQueryResultGroup

**Framework**: Foundation  
**Kind**: class

The `NSMetadataQueryResultGroup` class represents a collection of grouped attribute results returned by an [`NSMetadataQuery`](nsmetadataquery.md) object.

**Availability**:
- iOS 5.0+
- iPadOS 5.0+
- Mac Catalyst 13.1+
- macOS 10.4+
- tvOS 9.0+
- visionOS 1.0+
- watchOS 2.0+

## Declaration

```swift
class NSMetadataQueryResultGroup
```

## Topics

### Getting Query Results
- [var attribute: String](nsmetadataqueryresultgroup/attribute.md)
  The result group’s attribute name.
- [var value: Any](nsmetadataqueryresultgroup/value.md)
  The result group’s value.
- [var results: [Any]](nsmetadataqueryresultgroup/results.md)
  An array containing the result group’s result objects.
- [var resultCount: Int](nsmetadataqueryresultgroup/resultcount.md)
  The number of results returned by the result group.
- [func result(at: Int) -> Any](nsmetadataqueryresultgroup/result(at:).md)
  Returns the query result at a specific index.
- [var subgroups: [NSMetadataQueryResultGroup]?](nsmetadataqueryresultgroup/subgroups.md)
  An array containing the result group’s subgroups.

## Relationships

### Inherits From
- [NSObject](../ObjectiveC/NSObject-swift.class.md)
### Conforms To
- [CVarArg](../Swift/CVarArg.md)
- [CustomDebugStringConvertible](../Swift/CustomDebugStringConvertible.md)
- [CustomStringConvertible](../Swift/CustomStringConvertible.md)
- [Equatable](../Swift/Equatable.md)
- [Hashable](../Swift/Hashable.md)
- [NSObjectProtocol](../ObjectiveC/NSObjectProtocol.md)

## See Also

- [var results: [Any]](nsmetadataquery/results.md)
  An array containing the query’s results.
- [var resultCount: Int](nsmetadataquery/resultcount.md)
  The number of results returned by the query. (read-only)
- [func result(at: Int) -> Any](nsmetadataquery/result(at:).md)
  Returns the query result at a specific index.
- [func index(ofResult: Any) -> Int](nsmetadataquery/index(ofresult:).md)
  Returns the index of a query result object in the receiver’s results array.
- [var groupedResults: [NSMetadataQueryResultGroup]](nsmetadataquery/groupedresults.md)
  An array containing hierarchical groups of query results. (read-only)
- [func enumerateResults((Any, Int, UnsafeMutablePointer<ObjCBool>) -> Void)](nsmetadataquery/enumerateresults(_:).md)
  Enumerates the current set of results using the given block.
- [func enumerateResults(options: NSEnumerationOptions, using: (Any, Int, UnsafeMutablePointer<ObjCBool>) -> Void)](nsmetadataquery/enumerateresults(options:using:).md)
  Enumerates the current set of results using the given options and block.
- [var valueLists: [String : [NSMetadataQueryAttributeValueTuple]]](nsmetadataquery/valuelists.md)
  A dictionary containing the value lists generated by the query.
- [class NSMetadataQueryAttributeValueTuple](nsmetadataqueryattributevaluetuple.md)
  The `NSMetadataQueryAttributeValueTuple` class represents attribute-value tuples, which are objects that contain the attribute name and value of a metadata attribute.
- [func value(ofAttribute: String, forResultAt: Int) -> Any?](nsmetadataquery/value(ofattribute:forresultat:).md)
  Returns the value for the attribute name `attrName` at the index in the results specified by `idx`.
- [func enableUpdates()](nsmetadataquery/enableupdates.md)
  Enables updates to the query results.
- [func disableUpdates()](nsmetadataquery/disableupdates.md)
  Disables updates to the query results.
- [var operationQueue: OperationQueue?](nsmetadataquery/operationqueue.md)
  The queue on which query result notifications are posted.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/nsmetadataqueryresultgroup)*