# NSUserNotification

**Framework**: Foundation  
**Kind**: class

A notification that can be scheduled for display in the notification center.

**Availability**:
- macOS 10.8+

## Declaration

```swift
class NSUserNotification
```

#### Overview

When the system delivers a notification, information about when the notification was actually presented to the user (if at all) and other details are provided in the notification object. User applications can create [`NSUserNotification`](nsusernotification.md) objects and register them with the [`NSUserNotificationCenter`](nsusernotificationcenter.md) object to notify the user when an application requires attention.

##### Threading Information

The [`NSUserNotificationCenter`](nsusernotificationcenter.md) class and the `NSUserNotification` class are both thread safe.

## Topics

### Display Information
- [var title: String?](nsusernotification/title.md)
  Specifies the title of the notification.
- [var subtitle: String?](nsusernotification/subtitle.md)
  Specifies the subtitle of the notification.
- [var informativeText: String?](nsusernotification/informativetext.md)
  The body text of the notification.
- [var contentImage: NSImage?](nsusernotification/contentimage.md)
  Image shown in the content of the notification.
- [var identifier: String?](nsusernotification/identifier.md)
  A string that uniquely identifies a notification.
- [var response: NSAttributedString?](nsusernotification/response.md)
  The response with which the user responded to a notification.
- [var responsePlaceholder: String?](nsusernotification/responseplaceholder.md)
  Optional placeholder string for inline reply field.
### Displayed Notification Buttons
- [var hasActionButton: Bool](nsusernotification/hasactionbutton.md)
  A Boolean value that specifies whether the notification displays an action button.
- [var actionButtonTitle: String](nsusernotification/actionbuttontitle.md)
  Specifies the title of the action button displayed in the notification.
- [var otherButtonTitle: String](nsusernotification/otherbuttontitle.md)
  Specifies a custom title for the close button in an alert-style notification.
- [var hasReplyButton: Bool](nsusernotification/hasreplybutton.md)
  A Boolean value that specifies whether the notification displays a reply button.
### Delivery Timing
- [var deliveryDate: Date?](nsusernotification/deliverydate.md)
  Specifies when the notification should be delivered.
- [var actualDeliveryDate: Date?](nsusernotification/actualdeliverydate.md)
  The date this notification was actually delivered.
- [var deliveryRepeatInterval: DateComponents?](nsusernotification/deliveryrepeatinterval.md)
  Specifies the date components that control how often a user notification is repeated.
- [var deliveryTimeZone: TimeZone?](nsusernotification/deliverytimezone.md)
  Specify the time zone to interpret the delivery date in.
### Delivery Information
- [var isPresented: Bool](nsusernotification/ispresented.md)
  Specifies whether the user notification has been presented.
- [var isRemote: Bool](nsusernotification/isremote.md)
  Specifies whether the remote was generated by a push notification.
- [var soundName: String?](nsusernotification/soundname.md)
  Specifies the name of the sound to play when the notification is delivered.
### User Notification Activation Method
- [var activationType: NSUserNotification.ActivationType](nsusernotification/activationtype-swift.property.md)
  Specifies what caused a user notification to occur.
- [var additionalActivationAction: NSUserNotificationAction?](nsusernotification/additionalactivationaction.md)
  An additional action selected by the user.
- [var additionalActions: [NSUserNotificationAction]?](nsusernotification/additionalactions.md)
  The actions that can be taken on a notification in addition to the default action.
### User Notification User Information
- [var userInfo: [String : Any]?](nsusernotification/userinfo.md)
  Application-specific user info that can be attached to the notification.
### Constants
- [NSUserNotification.ActivationType](nsusernotification/activationtype-swift.enum.md)
  These constants describe how the user notification was activated.
- [let NSUserNotificationDefaultSoundName: String](nsusernotificationdefaultsoundname.md)
  The default notification sound.
### Initializers
- [init()](nsusernotification/init.md)

## Relationships

### Inherits From
- [NSObject](../ObjectiveC/NSObject-swift.class.md)
### Conforms To
- [CVarArg](../Swift/CVarArg.md)
- [CustomDebugStringConvertible](../Swift/CustomDebugStringConvertible.md)
- [CustomStringConvertible](../Swift/CustomStringConvertible.md)
- [Equatable](../Swift/Equatable.md)
- [Hashable](../Swift/Hashable.md)
- [NSCopying](nscopying.md)
- [NSObjectProtocol](../ObjectiveC/NSObjectProtocol.md)

## See Also

- [class NSUserNotificationAction](nsusernotificationaction.md)
  An action that the user can take in response to receiving a notification.
- [class NSUserNotificationCenter](nsusernotificationcenter.md)
  An object that delivers notifications from apps to the user.
- [protocol NSUserNotificationCenterDelegate](nsusernotificationcenterdelegate.md)
  An interface that enables customizing the behavior of the default notification center.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/nsusernotification)*