# ProgressKind

**Framework**: Foundation  
**Kind**: struct

An object that represents the kind of progress.

**Availability**:
- iOS 2.0+
- iPadOS 2.0+
- Mac Catalyst 13.0+
- macOS 10.0+
- tvOS 9.0+
- visionOS 1.0+
- watchOS 2.0+

## Declaration

```swift
struct ProgressKind
```

#### Discussion

When tracking file operations with the progress [`kind`](progress/kind.md) set to [`file`](progresskind/file.md), provide a value for the [`fileOperationKindKey`](progressuserinfokey/fileoperationkindkey.md) in the user info dictionary.

To specify the kind of file operation, provide one of the following values:

- [`copying`](progress/fileoperationkind-swift.struct/copying.md)
- [`decompressingAfterDownloading`](progress/fileoperationkind-swift.struct/decompressingafterdownloading.md)
- [`downloading`](progress/fileoperationkind-swift.struct/downloading.md)
- [`uploading`](progress/fileoperationkind-swift.struct/uploading.md)
- [`receiving`](progress/fileoperationkind-swift.struct/receiving.md)

## Topics

### Creating Kinds of Progress
- [init(String)](progresskind/init(_:).md)
  Creates a new kind of progress using the specified string.
- [init(rawValue: String)](progresskind/init(rawvalue:).md)
  Creates a new kind of progress using the raw value of a string you specify.
### Recognizing Kinds of Progress
- [static let file: ProgressKind](progresskind/file.md)
  The value that indicates that the progress is tracking a file operation.

## Relationships

### Conforms To
- [Equatable](../Swift/Equatable.md)
- [Hashable](../Swift/Hashable.md)
- [RawRepresentable](../Swift/RawRepresentable.md)
- [Sendable](../Swift/Sendable.md)
- [SendableMetatype](../Swift/SendableMetatype.md)

## See Also

- [var kind: ProgressKind?](progress/kind.md)
  An object that represents the kind of progress for the progress object.
- [var estimatedTimeRemaining: TimeInterval?](progress/estimatedtimeremaining.md)
  A value that indicates the estimated amount of time remaining to complete the progress.
- [var throughput: Int?](progress/throughput.md)
  A value that represents the speed of data processing, in bytes per second.
- [func setUserInfoObject(Any?, forKey: ProgressUserInfoKey)](progress/setuserinfoobject(_:forkey:).md)
  Sets a value in the user info dictionary.
- [var userInfo: [ProgressUserInfoKey : Any]](progress/userinfo.md)
  A dictionary of arbitrary values for the receiver.
- [struct ProgressUserInfoKey](progressuserinfokey.md)
  Keys for the user info dictionary that affect the autogenerated localized additional description string.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/progresskind)*