# ProgressUserInfoKey

**Framework**: Foundation  
**Kind**: struct

Keys for the user info dictionary that affect the autogenerated localized additional description string.

**Availability**:
- iOS 2.0+
- iPadOS 2.0+
- Mac Catalyst 13.0+
- macOS 10.0+
- tvOS 9.0+
- visionOS 1.0+
- watchOS 2.0+

## Declaration

```swift
struct ProgressUserInfoKey
```

#### Discussion

Enhance the autogenerated description that [`localizedAdditionalDescription`](progress/localizedadditionaldescription.md) provides by including keys and related values in the user info dictionary. For example, if you provide the keys [`fileCompletedCountKey`](progressuserinfokey/filecompletedcountkey.md) and [`fileTotalCountKey`](progressuserinfokey/filetotalcountkey.md), the [`localizedAdditionalDescription`](progress/localizedadditionaldescription.md) method uses the values from those keys to provide strings showing the number of completed and total files.

## Topics

### Creating Keys
- [init(String)](progressuserinfokey/init(_:).md)
  Creates a new key using the specified string.
- [init(rawValue: String)](progressuserinfokey/init(rawvalue:).md)
  Creates a new key using the raw value of a string you specify.
### Using General Keys
- [static let estimatedTimeRemainingKey: ProgressUserInfoKey](progressuserinfokey/estimatedtimeremainingkey.md)
  A key with a corresponding value that represents the time remaining, in seconds.
- [static let throughputKey: ProgressUserInfoKey](progressuserinfokey/throughputkey.md)
  A key with a corresponding value that indicates the speed of data processing, in bytes per second.
### Using File Operation Keys
- [static let fileAnimationImageKey: ProgressUserInfoKey](progressuserinfokey/fileanimationimagekey.md)
  A key with a corresponding value that is an image, typically an icon to represent the file.
- [static let fileAnimationImageOriginalRectKey: ProgressUserInfoKey](progressuserinfokey/fileanimationimageoriginalrectkey.md)
  A key with a corresponding value that indicates the starting location of the image onscreen.
- [static let fileCompletedCountKey: ProgressUserInfoKey](progressuserinfokey/filecompletedcountkey.md)
  A key with a corresponding value that represents the number of completed files.
- [static let fileIconKey: ProgressUserInfoKey](progressuserinfokey/fileiconkey.md)
  A key with a corresponding value that must be an image, typically an icon to represent the file.
- [static let fileOperationKindKey: ProgressUserInfoKey](progressuserinfokey/fileoperationkindkey.md)
  A key with a corresponding value that indicates the kind of file operation a progress object represents.
- [static let fileTotalCountKey: ProgressUserInfoKey](progressuserinfokey/filetotalcountkey.md)
  A key with a corresponding value that represents the total number of files within a file operation.
- [static let fileURLKey: ProgressUserInfoKey](progressuserinfokey/fileurlkey.md)
  A key with a corresponding value that represents the file URL of a file operation for the progress object.

## Relationships

### Conforms To
- [Equatable](../Swift/Equatable.md)
- [Hashable](../Swift/Hashable.md)
- [RawRepresentable](../Swift/RawRepresentable.md)
- [Sendable](../Swift/Sendable.md)
- [SendableMetatype](../Swift/SendableMetatype.md)

## See Also

- [var kind: ProgressKind?](progress/kind.md)
  An object that represents the kind of progress for the progress object.
- [var estimatedTimeRemaining: TimeInterval?](progress/estimatedtimeremaining.md)
  A value that indicates the estimated amount of time remaining to complete the progress.
- [var throughput: Int?](progress/throughput.md)
  A value that represents the speed of data processing, in bytes per second.
- [func setUserInfoObject(Any?, forKey: ProgressUserInfoKey)](progress/setuserinfoobject(_:forkey:).md)
  Sets a value in the user info dictionary.
- [var userInfo: [ProgressUserInfoKey : Any]](progress/userinfo.md)
  A dictionary of arbitrary values for the receiver.
- [struct ProgressKind](progresskind.md)
  An object that represents the kind of progress.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/progressuserinfokey)*