# magneticField()

**Framework**: SpriteKit  
**Kind**: method

Creates a field node that applies a magnetic force based on the velocity and electrical charge of the physics bodies.

**Availability**:
- iOS 8.0+
- iPadOS 8.0+
- Mac Catalyst 13.1+
- macOS 10.10+
- tvOS 9.0+
- visionOS 1.0+
- watchOS 1.0+

## Declaration

```swift
@MainActor
class func magneticField() -> SKFieldNode
```

#### Return Value

A new magnetic field node.

#### Discussion

The force generated by this field is directed on a line that is determined by calculating the cross-product between the direction of the the physics body’s [`velocity`](skphysicsbody/velocity.md) property and a line traced between the field node and the physics body. This field models the second part of the Lorentz equation:

Where  equals force,  equals charge,  equals velocity,  equals magnetic field and  equals electric field.

The force has a magnitude proportional to the field’s [`strength`](skfieldnode/strength.md) property and the physics body’s [`charge`](skphysicsbody/charge.md) and [`velocity`](skphysicsbody/velocity.md) properties. Therefore, physics bodies that are either stationary or with a charge of zero will not be affected by a magnetic field. Magnetic fields with a negative strength value impart a clockwise spin on the physics bodies they affect, while a positive strength give a clockwise spin.The [`falloff`](skfieldnode/falloff.md) property of a magnetic field node is set by default to `2`.

## See Also

- [class func dragField() -> SKFieldNode](skfieldnode/dragfield.md)
  Creates a field node that applies a force that resists the motion of physics bodies.
- [class func electricField() -> SKFieldNode](skfieldnode/electricfield.md)
  Creates a field node that applies an electrical force proportional to the electrical charge of physics bodies.
- [class func linearGravityField(withVector: vector_float3) -> SKFieldNode](skfieldnode/lineargravityfield(withvector:).md)
  Creates a field node that accelerates physics bodies in a specific direction.
- [class func noiseField(withSmoothness: CGFloat, animationSpeed: CGFloat) -> SKFieldNode](skfieldnode/noisefield(withsmoothness:animationspeed:).md)
  Creates a field node that applies a randomized acceleration to physics bodies.
- [class func radialGravityField() -> SKFieldNode](skfieldnode/radialgravityfield.md)
  Creates a field node that accelerates physics bodies toward the field node.
- [class func springField() -> SKFieldNode](skfieldnode/springfield.md)
  Creates a field node that applies a spring-like force that pulls physics bodies toward the field node.
- [class func turbulenceField(withSmoothness: CGFloat, animationSpeed: CGFloat) -> SKFieldNode](skfieldnode/turbulencefield(withsmoothness:animationspeed:).md)
  Creates a field node that applies a randomized acceleration to physics bodies.
- [class func velocityField(with: SKTexture) -> SKFieldNode](skfieldnode/velocityfield(with:).md)
  Creates a field node that sets the velocity of physics bodies that enter the node’s area based on the pixel values of a texture.
- [class func velocityField(withVector: vector_float3) -> SKFieldNode](skfieldnode/velocityfield(withvector:).md)
  Creates a field node that gives physics bodies a constant velocity.
- [class func vortexField() -> SKFieldNode](skfieldnode/vortexfield.md)
  Creates a field node that applies a perpendicular force to physics bodies.
- [class func customField(evaluationBlock: SKFieldForceEvaluator) -> SKFieldNode](skfieldnode/customfield(evaluationblock:).md)
  Creates a field node that calculates and applies a custom force to the physics body.
- [typealias SKFieldForceEvaluator](skfieldforceevaluator.md)
  The definition for a custom block that processes a single physics body’s interaction with the field.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/spritekit/skfieldnode/magneticfield())*