# iso8601(_:)

**Framework**: Foundation  
**Kind**: method

Creates the ISO 8601 representation of the timezone with hours, minutes, and optional seconds.

**Availability**:
- iOS 15.0+
- iPadOS 15.0+
- Mac Catalyst 15.0+
- macOS 12.0+
- tvOS 15.0+
- visionOS 1.0+
- watchOS 8.0+

## Declaration

```swift
static func iso8601(_ width: Date.FormatStyle.Symbol.TimeZone.Width) -> Date.FormatStyle.Symbol.TimeZone
```

#### Return Value

A timezone format style appropriate for the locale and specified width.

#### Discussion

For example, `-0700` ([`Date.FormatStyle.Symbol.TimeZone.Width.short`](date/formatstyle/symbol/timezone/width/short.md)) or `-07:00` ([`Date.FormatStyle.Symbol.TimeZone.Width.long`](date/formatstyle/symbol/timezone/width/long.md)).

## Parameters

- `width`: Specifies the width of the string result.

## See Also

- [static func specificName(Date.FormatStyle.Symbol.TimeZone.Width) -> Date.FormatStyle.Symbol.TimeZone](date/formatstyle/symbol/timezone/specificname(_:).md)
  Returns the specific, non-location representation of a timezone.
- [static func genericName(Date.FormatStyle.Symbol.TimeZone.Width) -> Date.FormatStyle.Symbol.TimeZone](date/formatstyle/symbol/timezone/genericname(_:).md)
  Returns the generic, non-location representation of a timezone.
- [static func localizedGMT(Date.FormatStyle.Symbol.TimeZone.Width) -> Date.FormatStyle.Symbol.TimeZone](date/formatstyle/symbol/timezone/localizedgmt(_:).md)
  Returns the localized GMT format representation of a timezone.
- [static func identifier(Date.FormatStyle.Symbol.TimeZone.Width) -> Date.FormatStyle.Symbol.TimeZone](date/formatstyle/symbol/timezone/identifier(_:).md)
  Returns the timezone identifier.
- [static var exemplarLocation: Date.FormatStyle.Symbol.TimeZone](date/formatstyle/symbol/timezone/exemplarlocation.md)
  The exemplar city for a timezone.
- [static var genericLocation: Date.FormatStyle.Symbol.TimeZone](date/formatstyle/symbol/timezone/genericlocation.md)
  The generic location representation of a timezone.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/date/formatstyle/symbol/timezone/iso8601(_:))*