# VNRequest

**Framework**: Vision  
**Kind**: class

The abstract superclass for analysis requests.

**Availability**:
- iOS 11.0+
- iPadOS 11.0+
- Mac Catalyst 13.1+
- macOS 10.13+
- tvOS 11.0+
- visionOS 1.0+

## Declaration

```swift
class VNRequest
```

#### Overview

Other Vision request handlers that perform image analysis inherit from this abstract base class. Instantiate one of its subclasses to perform image analysis.

> ❗ **Important**:  A [`VNRequest`](vnrequest.md) discards the alpha channel of input images, so don’t rely on it.

## Topics

### Initializing a Request
- [convenience init()](vnrequest/init.md)
  Creates a new Vision request with no completion handler.
- [init(completionHandler: VNRequestCompletionHandler?)](vnrequest/init(completionhandler:).md)
  Creates a new Vision request with an optional completion handler.
### Configuring a Request
- [typealias VNRequestCompletionHandler](vnrequestcompletionhandler.md)
  A type alias to encapsulate the syntax for the completion handler the system calls after the request finishes processing.
- [var completionHandler: VNRequestCompletionHandler?](vnrequest/completionhandler.md)
  The completion handler the system invokes after the request finishes processing.
- [var preferBackgroundProcessing: Bool](vnrequest/preferbackgroundprocessing.md)
  A hint to minimize the resource burden of the request.
- [var results: [VNObservation]?](vnrequest/results.md)
  The collection of [`VNObservation`](vnobservation.md) results generated by request processing.
- [var revision: Int](vnrequest/revision.md)
  The specific algorithm or implementation revision that’s used to perform the request.
- [var usesCPUOnly: Bool](vnrequest/usescpuonly.md)
  A Boolean signifying that the Vision request should execute exclusively on the CPU.
### Configuring the Compute Device
- [func setComputeDevice(MLComputeDevice?, for: VNComputeStage)](vnrequest/setcomputedevice(_:for:).md)
  Assigns a compute device for a compute stage.
- [func computeDevice(for: VNComputeStage) -> MLComputeDevice?](vnrequest/computedevice(for:).md)
  Returns the compute device for a compute stage.
- [var supportedComputeStageDevices: [VNComputeStage : [MLComputeDevice]]](vnrequest/supportedcomputestagedevices.md)
  The collection of compute devices per stage that a request supports.
### Canceling a Request
- [func cancel()](vnrequest/cancel.md)
  Cancels the request before it can finish executing.
### Executing a Completion Handler
- [typealias VNRequestCompletionHandler](vnrequestcompletionhandler.md)
  A type alias to encapsulate the syntax for the completion handler the system calls after the request finishes processing.
### Determining the Revision
- [protocol VNRequestRevisionProviding](vnrequestrevisionproviding.md)
  A protocol for specifying the revision number of Vision algorithms.
- [class var currentRevision: Int](vnrequest/currentrevision.md)
  The current revison supported by the request.
- [class var defaultRevision: Int](vnrequest/defaultrevision.md)
  The revision of the latest request for the particular SDK linked with the client application.
- [class var supportedRevisions: IndexSet](vnrequest/supportedrevisions.md)
  The collection of currently-supported algorithm versions for the class of request.

## Relationships

### Inherits From
- [NSObject](../ObjectiveC/NSObject-swift.class.md)
### Inherited By
- [VNImageBasedRequest](vnimagebasedrequest.md)
### Conforms To
- [CVarArg](../Swift/CVarArg.md)
- [CustomDebugStringConvertible](../Swift/CustomDebugStringConvertible.md)
- [CustomStringConvertible](../Swift/CustomStringConvertible.md)
- [Equatable](../Swift/Equatable.md)
- [Hashable](../Swift/Hashable.md)
- [NSCopying](../Foundation/NSCopying.md)
- [NSObjectProtocol](../ObjectiveC/NSObjectProtocol.md)

## See Also

- [Detecting Objects in Still Images](detecting-objects-in-still-images.md)
  Locate and demarcate rectangles, faces, barcodes, and text in images using the Vision framework.
- [Classifying images for categorization and search](classifying-images-for-categorization-and-search.md)
  Analyze and label images using a Vision classification request.
- [Analyzing Image Similarity with Feature Print](analyzing-image-similarity-with-feature-print.md)
  Generate a feature print to compute distance between images.
- [class VNImageBasedRequest](vnimagebasedrequest.md)
  The abstract superclass for image-analysis requests that focus on a specific part of an image.
- [class VNClassifyImageRequest](vnclassifyimagerequest.md)
  A request to classify an image.
- [class VNGenerateImageFeaturePrintRequest](vngenerateimagefeatureprintrequest.md)
  An image-based request to generate feature prints from an image.
- [class VNFeaturePrintObservation](vnfeatureprintobservation.md)
  An observation that provides the recognized feature print.
- [class VNImageRequestHandler](vnimagerequesthandler.md)
  An object that processes one or more image-analysis request pertaining to a single image.
- [class VNObservation](vnobservation.md)
  The abstract superclass for analysis results.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/vision/vnrequest)*