# Frame processing

**Framework**: Video Toolbox

An interface for accessing a range of different video-processing features.

#### Overview

A `Configuration` object defines each processor implementation by passing initialization and configuration parameters for the processor, and a `Parameter` object provides the parameters for each individual processing operation.

## Topics

### Frame processor
- [Enhancing your app with machine learning-based video effects](enhancing-your-app-with-machine-learning-based-video-effects.md)
  Add powerful effects to your videos using the VideoToolbox VTFrameProcessor API.
- [class VTFrameProcessor](vtframeprocessor.md)
  A class that creates a new frame processor for the configured video effect.
- [class VTFrameProcessorFrame](vtframeprocessorframe.md)
  An object that wraps video frames to send to the processor, as source, reference, or output frames.
- [protocol VTFrameProcessorConfiguration](vtframeprocessorconfiguration.md)
  A protocol that describes the configuration of a processor to use during a video processing session.
- [protocol VTFrameProcessorParameters](vtframeprocessorparameters.md)
  The base protocol for input and output processing parameters for a frame processor implementation.
### Frame rate conversion
- [class VTFrameRateConversionConfiguration](vtframerateconversionconfiguration.md)
  An object that enables the frame rate conversion on a frame processing session.
- [class VTFrameRateConversionParameters](vtframerateconversionparameters.md)
  An object that contains the required input and output parameters to run a frame rate conversion processor on a frame.
### Optical flow
- [class VTFrameProcessorOpticalFlow](vtframeprocessoropticalflow.md)
  A class to wrap bidirectional optical flow to send to the processor.
- [class VTOpticalFlowConfiguration](vtopticalflowconfiguration.md)
  A configuration object that enables optical flow on a frame processing session.
- [class VTOpticalFlowParameters](vtopticalflowparameters.md)
  An object that describes frame-level optical flow parameters.
### Motion blur
- [class VTMotionBlurConfiguration](vtmotionblurconfiguration.md)
  A configuration object to enable motion blur on a frame processing session.
- [class VTMotionBlurParameters](vtmotionblurparameters.md)
  This object contains both input and output parameters necessary to run the motion blur processor on a frame.
### Errors
- [struct VTFrameProcessorError](vtframeprocessorerror-swift.struct.md)
  Error codes generated by a frame processor.
- [let VTFrameProcessorErrorDomain: String](vtframeprocessorerrordomain.md)
  The error domain of Video Toolbox errors.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/videotoolbox/frame-processing)*