# drawIndexedPrimitives(_:indexCount:indexType:indexBuffer:indexBufferOffset:instanceCount:baseVertex:baseInstance:)

**Framework**: Metal  
**Kind**: method  
**Required**: Yes

Encodes a command to render a number of instances of primitives using an index list specified in a buffer, starting from the base vertex of the base instance.

**Availability**:
- iOS 12.0+
- iPadOS 12.0+
- Mac Catalyst 13.1+
- macOS 10.14+
- tvOS 12.0+
- visionOS 1.0+

## Declaration

```swift
func drawIndexedPrimitives(_ primitiveType: MTLPrimitiveType, indexCount: Int, indexType: MTLIndexType, indexBuffer: any MTLBuffer, indexBufferOffset: Int, instanceCount: Int, baseVertex: Int, baseInstance: Int)
```

#### Discussion

The command generated by this method is equivalent to calling [`drawIndexedPrimitives(type:indexCount:indexType:indexBuffer:indexBufferOffset:instanceCount:baseVertex:baseInstance:)`](mtlrendercommandencoder/drawindexedprimitives(type:indexcount:indextype:indexbuffer:indexbufferoffset:instancecount:basevertex:baseinstance:).md).

## Parameters

- `primitiveType`: The type of primitive that the vertices are assembled into.
- `indexCount`: For each instance, the number of indices to read from the index buffer.
- `indexType`: The data type of the indices.
- `indexBuffer`: A buffer that contains indices to vertices.
- `indexBufferOffset`: Byte offset within indexBuffer to start reading indices from.
- `instanceCount`: The number of instances to draw.
- `baseVertex`: The first vertex to draw.
- `baseInstance`: The first instance to draw.

## See Also

- [func drawPrimitives(MTLPrimitiveType, vertexStart: Int, vertexCount: Int, instanceCount: Int, baseInstance: Int)](mtlindirectrendercommand/drawprimitives(_:vertexstart:vertexcount:instancecount:baseinstance:).md)
  Encodes a command to render a number of instances of primitives using vertex data in contiguous array elements, starting from the base instance.
- [func drawPatches(Int, patchStart: Int, patchCount: Int, patchIndexBuffer: (any MTLBuffer)?, patchIndexBufferOffset: Int, instanceCount: Int, baseInstance: Int, tessellationFactorBuffer: any MTLBuffer, tessellationFactorBufferOffset: Int, tessellationFactorBufferInstanceStride: Int)](mtlindirectrendercommand/drawpatches(_:patchstart:patchcount:patchindexbuffer:patchindexbufferoffset:instancecount:baseinstance:tessellationfactorbuffer:tessellationfactorbufferoffset:tessellationfactorbufferinstancestride:).md)
  Encodes a command to render a number of instances of tessellated patches.
- [func drawIndexedPatches(Int, patchStart: Int, patchCount: Int, patchIndexBuffer: (any MTLBuffer)?, patchIndexBufferOffset: Int, controlPointIndexBuffer: any MTLBuffer, controlPointIndexBufferOffset: Int, instanceCount: Int, baseInstance: Int, tessellationFactorBuffer: any MTLBuffer, tessellationFactorBufferOffset: Int, tessellationFactorBufferInstanceStride: Int)](mtlindirectrendercommand/drawindexedpatches(_:patchstart:patchcount:patchindexbuffer:patchindexbufferoffset:controlpointindexbuffer:controlpointindexbufferoffset:instancecount:baseinstance:tessellationfactorbuffer:tessellationfactorbufferoffset:tessellationfactorbu-4mdz8.md)
  Encodes a command to render a number of instances of tessellated patches, using a control point index buffer.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/metal/mtlindirectrendercommand/drawindexedprimitives(_:indexcount:indextype:indexbuffer:indexbufferoffset:instancecount:basevertex:baseinstance:))*