# characterRange(forGlyphRange:actualGlyphRange:)

**Framework**: UIKit  
**Kind**: method

Returns the range of characters that correspond to the glyphs in the specified glyph range.

**Availability**:
- iOS 7.0+
- iPadOS 7.0+
- Mac Catalyst 13.1+
- tvOS ?+
- visionOS 1.0+

## Declaration

```swift
func characterRange(forGlyphRange glyphRange: NSRange, actualGlyphRange: NSRangePointer?) -> NSRange
```

#### Return Value

The range of characters that generated the glyphs in `glyphRange`.

#### Discussion

If the length of `glyphRange` is `0`, the resulting character range is a zero-length range just after the character(s) corresponding to the preceding glyph, and `actualGlyphRange` is also zero-length. If `glyphRange` extends beyond the text length, the method truncates the result to the number of characters in the text.

If noncontiguous layout is not enabled, this method forces the generation of glyphs for all characters up to and including the end of the returned range.

## Parameters

- `glyphRange`: The glyph range for which to return the character range.
- `actualGlyphRange`: If not  , on output, points to the full range of glyphs generated by the character range returned. This range may be identical or slightly larger than the requested glyph range. For example, if the text storage contains the character “ ” and the glyph cache contains the two atomic glyphs “ ” and “ ”, and if   encloses only the first or second glyph, then   is set to enclose both glyphs.

## See Also

- [func characterIndexForGlyph(at: Int) -> Int](nslayoutmanager/characterindexforglyph(at:).md)
  Returns the index in the text storage for the first character of the specified glyph.
- [func boundingRect(forGlyphRange: NSRange, in: NSTextContainer) -> CGRect](nslayoutmanager/boundingrect(forglyphrange:in:).md)
  Returns the bounding rectangle for the specified glyphs in a container.
- [func characterIndex(for: CGPoint, in: NSTextContainer, fractionOfDistanceBetweenInsertionPoints: UnsafeMutablePointer<CGFloat>?) -> Int](nslayoutmanager/characterindex(for:in:fractionofdistancebetweeninsertionpoints:).md)
  Returns the index of the character that lies beneath the specified point using the specified container’s coordinate system.
- [func enumerateEnclosingRects(forGlyphRange: NSRange, withinSelectedGlyphRange: NSRange, in: NSTextContainer, using: (CGRect, UnsafeMutablePointer<ObjCBool>) -> Void)](nslayoutmanager/enumerateenclosingrects(forglyphrange:withinselectedglyphrange:in:using:).md)
  Enumerates enclosing rectangles for the specified glyph range in a text container.
- [func enumerateLineFragments(forGlyphRange: NSRange, using: (CGRect, CGRect, NSTextContainer, NSRange, UnsafeMutablePointer<ObjCBool>) -> Void)](nslayoutmanager/enumeratelinefragments(forglyphrange:using:).md)
  Enumerates line fragments intersecting with the specified glyph range.
- [func fractionOfDistanceThroughGlyph(for: CGPoint, in: NSTextContainer) -> CGFloat](nslayoutmanager/fractionofdistancethroughglyph(for:in:).md)
  Returns the fraction of the distance between the glyph at the specified point and the next glyph.
- [func getLineFragmentInsertionPoints(forCharacterAt: Int, alternatePositions: Bool, inDisplayOrder: Bool, positions: UnsafeMutablePointer<CGFloat>?, characterIndexes: UnsafeMutablePointer<Int>?) -> Int](nslayoutmanager/getlinefragmentinsertionpoints(forcharacterat:alternatepositions:indisplayorder:positions:characterindexes:).md)
  Returns insertion points in bulk for a specified line fragment.
- [func glyphIndex(for: CGPoint, in: NSTextContainer) -> Int](nslayoutmanager/glyphindex(for:in:).md)
  Returns the index of the glyph at the specified location in a text container.
- [func glyphIndex(for: CGPoint, in: NSTextContainer, fractionOfDistanceThroughGlyph: UnsafeMutablePointer<CGFloat>?) -> Int](nslayoutmanager/glyphindex(for:in:fractionofdistancethroughglyph:).md)
  Returns the index of the glyph at the specified point using the container’s coordinate system.
- [func glyphRange(forBoundingRect: CGRect, in: NSTextContainer) -> NSRange](nslayoutmanager/glyphrange(forboundingrect:in:).md)
  Returns the smallest contiguous range for glyphs lying wholly or partially within the specified rectangle of the text container.
- [func glyphRange(forBoundingRectWithoutAdditionalLayout: CGRect, in: NSTextContainer) -> NSRange](nslayoutmanager/glyphrange(forboundingrectwithoutadditionallayout:in:).md)
  Returns the smallest contiguous range for glyphs lying wholly or partially within the specified rectangle of the text container.
- [func glyphRange(for: NSTextContainer) -> NSRange](nslayoutmanager/glyphrange(for:).md)
  Returns the range of glyphs lying within the specified text container.
- [func glyphRange(forCharacterRange: NSRange, actualCharacterRange: NSRangePointer?) -> NSRange](nslayoutmanager/glyphrange(forcharacterrange:actualcharacterrange:).md)
  Returns the range of glyphs that the specified range of characters generates.
- [func range(ofNominallySpacedGlyphsContaining: Int) -> NSRange](nslayoutmanager/range(ofnominallyspacedglyphscontaining:).md)
  Returns the range of displayable glyphs that surround the glyph at the specified index.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/nslayoutmanager/characterrange(forglyphrange:actualglyphrange:))*