# glyphRange(forCharacterRange:actualCharacterRange:)

**Framework**: UIKit  
**Kind**: method

Returns the range of glyphs that the specified range of characters generates.

**Availability**:
- iOS 7.0+
- iPadOS 7.0+
- Mac Catalyst 13.1+
- tvOS ?+
- visionOS 1.0+

## Declaration

```swift
func glyphRange(forCharacterRange charRange: NSRange, actualCharacterRange actualCharRange: NSRangePointer?) -> NSRange
```

#### Return Value

The range of glyphs generated by `charRange`.

#### Discussion

If the length of `charRange` is `0`, the resulting glyph range is a zero-length range just after the glyph(s) corresponding to the preceding character, and `actualCharRange` will also be zero-length. If `charRange` extends beyond the text length, the method truncates the result to the number of glyphs in the text.

If noncontiguous layout is not enabled, this method forces the generation of glyphs for all characters up to and including the end of the specified range.

## Parameters

- `charRange`: The character range for which to return the generated glyph range.
- `actualCharRange`: If not  , on output, points to the actual range of characters that fully define the glyph range returned. This range may be identical to or slightly larger than the requested character range. For example, if the text storage contains the characters “ ” and  , and the glyph store contains the single precomposed glyph “¨ ”, and if   encloses only the first or second character, then   is set to enclose both characters.

## See Also

- [func characterIndexForGlyph(at: Int) -> Int](nslayoutmanager/characterindexforglyph(at:).md)
  Returns the index in the text storage for the first character of the specified glyph.
- [func boundingRect(forGlyphRange: NSRange, in: NSTextContainer) -> CGRect](nslayoutmanager/boundingrect(forglyphrange:in:).md)
  Returns the bounding rectangle for the specified glyphs in a container.
- [func characterIndex(for: CGPoint, in: NSTextContainer, fractionOfDistanceBetweenInsertionPoints: UnsafeMutablePointer<CGFloat>?) -> Int](nslayoutmanager/characterindex(for:in:fractionofdistancebetweeninsertionpoints:).md)
  Returns the index of the character that lies beneath the specified point using the specified container’s coordinate system.
- [func characterRange(forGlyphRange: NSRange, actualGlyphRange: NSRangePointer?) -> NSRange](nslayoutmanager/characterrange(forglyphrange:actualglyphrange:).md)
  Returns the range of characters that correspond to the glyphs in the specified glyph range.
- [func enumerateEnclosingRects(forGlyphRange: NSRange, withinSelectedGlyphRange: NSRange, in: NSTextContainer, using: (CGRect, UnsafeMutablePointer<ObjCBool>) -> Void)](nslayoutmanager/enumerateenclosingrects(forglyphrange:withinselectedglyphrange:in:using:).md)
  Enumerates enclosing rectangles for the specified glyph range in a text container.
- [func enumerateLineFragments(forGlyphRange: NSRange, using: (CGRect, CGRect, NSTextContainer, NSRange, UnsafeMutablePointer<ObjCBool>) -> Void)](nslayoutmanager/enumeratelinefragments(forglyphrange:using:).md)
  Enumerates line fragments intersecting with the specified glyph range.
- [func fractionOfDistanceThroughGlyph(for: CGPoint, in: NSTextContainer) -> CGFloat](nslayoutmanager/fractionofdistancethroughglyph(for:in:).md)
  Returns the fraction of the distance between the glyph at the specified point and the next glyph.
- [func getLineFragmentInsertionPoints(forCharacterAt: Int, alternatePositions: Bool, inDisplayOrder: Bool, positions: UnsafeMutablePointer<CGFloat>?, characterIndexes: UnsafeMutablePointer<Int>?) -> Int](nslayoutmanager/getlinefragmentinsertionpoints(forcharacterat:alternatepositions:indisplayorder:positions:characterindexes:).md)
  Returns insertion points in bulk for a specified line fragment.
- [func glyphIndex(for: CGPoint, in: NSTextContainer) -> Int](nslayoutmanager/glyphindex(for:in:).md)
  Returns the index of the glyph at the specified location in a text container.
- [func glyphIndex(for: CGPoint, in: NSTextContainer, fractionOfDistanceThroughGlyph: UnsafeMutablePointer<CGFloat>?) -> Int](nslayoutmanager/glyphindex(for:in:fractionofdistancethroughglyph:).md)
  Returns the index of the glyph at the specified point using the container’s coordinate system.
- [func glyphRange(forBoundingRect: CGRect, in: NSTextContainer) -> NSRange](nslayoutmanager/glyphrange(forboundingrect:in:).md)
  Returns the smallest contiguous range for glyphs lying wholly or partially within the specified rectangle of the text container.
- [func glyphRange(forBoundingRectWithoutAdditionalLayout: CGRect, in: NSTextContainer) -> NSRange](nslayoutmanager/glyphrange(forboundingrectwithoutadditionallayout:in:).md)
  Returns the smallest contiguous range for glyphs lying wholly or partially within the specified rectangle of the text container.
- [func glyphRange(for: NSTextContainer) -> NSRange](nslayoutmanager/glyphrange(for:).md)
  Returns the range of glyphs lying within the specified text container.
- [func range(ofNominallySpacedGlyphsContaining: Int) -> NSRange](nslayoutmanager/range(ofnominallyspacedglyphscontaining:).md)
  Returns the range of displayable glyphs that surround the glyph at the specified index.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/nslayoutmanager/glyphrange(forcharacterrange:actualcharacterrange:))*