# init(width:height:pixelFormat:commandBuffer:mtlTextureProvider:)

**Framework**: Core Image  
**Kind**: instctr

Creates a render destination based on a Metal texture with specified pixel format.

**Availability**:
- iOS 11.0+
- iPadOS 11.0+
- Mac Catalyst 13.1+
- macOS 10.13+
- tvOS 11.0+
- visionOS 1.0+

## Declaration

```swift
init(width: Int, height: Int, pixelFormat: MTLPixelFormat, commandBuffer: (any MTLCommandBuffer)?, mtlTextureProvider block: (() -> any MTLTexture)? = nil)
```

#### Return_value

A [`CIRenderDestination`](cirenderdestination.md) object for rendering to a Metal texture.

#### Discussion

The destination's [`colorSpace`](cirenderdestination/2875439-colorspace.md) property will default to a [`CGColorSpace`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/coregraphics/cgcolorspace) created with [`sRGB`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/coregraphics/cgcolorspace/srgb), [`extendedSRGB`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/coregraphics/cgcolorspace/extendedsrgb), or [`genericGrayGamma2_2`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/coregraphics/cgcolorspace/genericgraygamma2_2).

## Parameters

- `width`: Width of the   that will be returned by block.
- `height`: Height of the   that will be returned by block.
- `pixelFormat`: Pixel format of the   that will be returned by block.
- `commandBuffer`: An optional   used for rendering to the  .
- `block`: -rendering provider block to be called lazily when the destination is rendered to.  The block must return a texture of   of  .

## See Also

- [init(pixelBuffer: CVPixelBuffer)](cirenderdestination/2875436-init.md)
  Creates a render destination based on a Core Video pixel buffer.
- [init(ioSurface: IOSurface)](cirenderdestination/2876044-init.md)
  Creates a render destination based on an [`IOSurface`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/iosurface/iosurface) object.
- [init(mtlTexture: any MTLTexture, commandBuffer: (any MTLCommandBuffer)?)](cirenderdestination/2880273-init.md)
  Creates a render destination based on a Metal texture.
- [init(glTexture: UInt32, target: UInt32, width: Int, height: Int)](cirenderdestination/2875438-init.md)
  Creates a render destination based on an OpenGL texture.
- [init(bitmapData: UnsafeMutableRawPointer, width: Int, height: Int, bytesPerRow: Int, format: CIFormat)](cirenderdestination/2875427-init.md)
  Creates a render destination based on a client-managed buffer.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/coreimage/cirenderdestination/2880274-init)*