# init

**Framework**: Kernel  
**Kind**: instm

Primary initialiser for the IOEventSource class.

## Declaration

```swift
virtual bool init(
 OSObject *owner,
 IOEventSource::Action action = 0);
```

#### Return_value

true if the inherited classes and this instance initialise successfully.

## Parameters

- `owner`: Owner of this instance of an event source. Used as the first parameter of the action callout. Owner will generally be an OSObject it doesn't have to be as no member functions will be called directly in it. It can just be a refcon for a client routine.
- `action`: Pointer to C call out function. Action is a pointer to a C function that gets called when this event source has outstanding work. It will usually be called by the checkForWork member function. The first parameter of the action call out will always be the owner, this allows C++ member functions to be used as actions. Defaults to 0.

## See Also

- [checkForWork](ioeventsource/1810760-checkforwork.md)
  Virtual member function used by IOWorkLoop for work scheduling.
- [disable](ioeventsource/1810784-disable.md)
  Disable event source.
- [enable](ioeventsource/1810807-enable.md)
  Enable event source.
- [getAction](ioeventsource/1810828-getaction.md)
  Get'ter for $link action variable.
- [getNext](ioeventsource/1810847-getnext.md)
  Get'ter for $link eventChainNext variable.
- [getWorkLoop](ioeventsource/1810872-getworkloop.md)
  Get'ter for $link workLoop variable.
- [isEnabled](ioeventsource/1810913-isenabled.md)
  Get'ter for $link enable variable.
- [onThread](ioeventsource/1810935-onthread.md)
  Convenience function for workLoop->onThread.
- [setAction](ioeventsource/1810952-setaction.md)
  Set'ter for $link action variable.
- [setNext](ioeventsource/1810967-setnext.md)
  Set'ter for $link eventChainNext variable.
- [setWorkLoop](ioeventsource/1810984-setworkloop.md)
  Set'ter for $link workLoop variable.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/kernel/ioeventsource/1810895-init)*