# turbulenceField(smoothness:animationSpeed:)

**Framework**: UIKit  
**Kind**: method

Creates and returns a field behavior object that applies noise to an item in motion.

**Availability**:
- iOS 9.0+
- iPadOS 9.0+
- Mac Catalyst 13.1+
- tvOS 9.0+
- visionOS 1.0+

## Declaration

```swift
@MainActor
class func turbulenceField(smoothness: CGFloat, animationSpeed speed: CGFloat) -> Self
```

#### Return Value

A field behavior object that applies turbulence to an item in motion.

#### Discussion

The strength of the noise generated by this field is proportional to the velocity of the item in the field.

## Parameters

- `smoothness`: The smoothness of the turbulence field. Specify a value between   and  , where   indicates the maximum amount of randomness in the generated field and   indicates the least amount of randomness.
- `speed`: The frequency at which the turbulence field changes, measured in Hertz (Hz). Specify   to create a turbulence field that does not change over time.

## See Also

- [class func dragField() -> Self](uifieldbehavior/dragfield.md)
  Creates and returns a field behavior for slowing an object’s velocity.
- [class func springField() -> Self](uifieldbehavior/springfield.md)
  Creates and returns a spring field behavior.
- [class func velocityField(direction: CGVector) -> Self](uifieldbehavior/velocityfield(direction:).md)
  Creates and returns a field behavior object that applies a directional velocity to items.
- [class func electricField() -> Self](uifieldbehavior/electricfield.md)
  Creates and returns a field behavior object that interacts with charged items.
- [class func magneticField() -> Self](uifieldbehavior/magneticfield.md)
  Creates and returns a field behavior that interacts with charged items.
- [class func radialGravityField(position: CGPoint) -> Self](uifieldbehavior/radialgravityfield(position:).md)
  Creates and returns a field behavior object that models a radial gravitational force.
- [class func linearGravityField(direction: CGVector) -> Self](uifieldbehavior/lineargravityfield(direction:).md)
  Creates and returns a field behavior object that models a linear gravitational force.
- [class func vortexField() -> Self](uifieldbehavior/vortexfield.md)
  Creates and returns a field behavior object that applies a rotational force relative to the field’s position.
- [class func noiseField(smoothness: CGFloat, animationSpeed: CGFloat) -> Self](uifieldbehavior/noisefield(smoothness:animationspeed:).md)
  Creates and returns a field behavior object that applies random noise to other forces.
- [class func field(evaluationBlock: (UIFieldBehavior, CGPoint, CGVector, CGFloat, CGFloat, TimeInterval) -> CGVector) -> Self](uifieldbehavior/field(evaluationblock:).md)
  Creates and returns a field behavior object that applies an app-specified field to items.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uifieldbehavior/turbulencefield(smoothness:animationspeed:))*