# MDLSkyCubeTexture

**Framework**: Model I/O  
**Kind**: class

A generator of texel data that creates cube textures using a physically realistic simulation of the sunlit sky.

**Availability**:
- iOS 9.0+
- iPadOS 9.0+
- Mac Catalyst 13.1+
- macOS 10.11+
- tvOS 9.0+
- visionOS 1.0+

## Declaration

```swift
class MDLSkyCubeTexture
```

#### Overview

The sky textures generated by this class can can be useful as environment maps or light probes in rendering. Like other procedural [`MDLTexture`](mdltexture.md) subclasses, the [`MDLSkyCubeTexture`](mdlskycubetexture.md) class generates texel data only when that data is first referenced, and then caches it for future use.

## Topics

### Creating a Sky Cube Texture
- [init(name: String?, channelEncoding: MDLTextureChannelEncoding, textureDimensions: vector_int2, turbidity: Float, sunElevation: Float, upperAtmosphereScattering: Float, groundAlbedo: Float)](mdlskycubetexture/init(name:channelencoding:texturedimensions:turbidity:sunelevation:upperatmospherescattering:groundalbedo:).md)
  Initializes a sky cube texture object with the specified parameters.
### Working with Sky Simulation Parameters
- [var turbidity: Float](mdlskycubetexture/turbidity.md)
  The cloudiness or haziness of the simulated sky.
- [var sunElevation: Float](mdlskycubetexture/sunelevation.md)
  The sun’s position in the simulated sky.
- [var upperAtmosphereScattering: Float](mdlskycubetexture/upperatmospherescattering.md)
  A factor that influences the color of the simulated sky.
- [var groundAlbedo: Float](mdlskycubetexture/groundalbedo.md)
  A factor that influences the clarity of the simulated sky.
- [var groundColor: CGColor?](mdlskycubetexture/groundcolor.md)
  The color of the simulated ground.
- [var horizonElevation: Float](mdlskycubetexture/horizonelevation.md)
  The angle, in radians relative to center, below which to render the ground color.
### Working with Tone Mapping Parameters
- [var gamma: Float](mdlskycubetexture/gamma.md)
  The amount of gamma correction to apply during tone mapping.
- [var exposure: Float](mdlskycubetexture/exposure.md)
  The amount of exposure compensation to apply during tone mapping.
- [var brightness: Float](mdlskycubetexture/brightness.md)
  The amount of brightness enhancement to apply during tone mapping.
- [var contrast: Float](mdlskycubetexture/contrast.md)
  The amount of contrast enhancement to apply during tone mapping.
- [var saturation: Float](mdlskycubetexture/saturation.md)
  The amount of saturation enhancement to apply during tone mapping.
- [var highDynamicRangeCompression: vector_float2](mdlskycubetexture/highdynamicrangecompression.md)
  Two parameters that determine the brightness compression curve for colors in the texture image.
### Updating Texture Data
- [func update()](mdlskycubetexture/update.md)
  Generates new texel data matching the current sky parameters.
### Initializers
- [init(name: String?, channelEncoding: MDLTextureChannelEncoding, textureDimensions: vector_int2, turbidity: Float, sunElevation: Float, sunAzimuth: Float, upperAtmosphereScattering: Float, groundAlbedo: Float)](mdlskycubetexture/init(name:channelencoding:texturedimensions:turbidity:sunelevation:sunazimuth:upperatmospherescattering:groundalbedo:).md)
### Instance Properties
- [var sunAzimuth: Float](mdlskycubetexture/sunazimuth.md)

## Relationships

### Inherits From
- [MDLTexture](mdltexture.md)
### Conforms To
- [CVarArg](../Swift/CVarArg.md)
- [CustomDebugStringConvertible](../Swift/CustomDebugStringConvertible.md)
- [CustomStringConvertible](../Swift/CustomStringConvertible.md)
- [Equatable](../Swift/Equatable.md)
- [Hashable](../Swift/Hashable.md)
- [MDLNamed](mdlnamed.md)
- [NSObjectProtocol](../ObjectiveC/NSObjectProtocol.md)

## See Also

- [class MDLTexture](mdltexture.md)
  A source of texel data to be used in rendering material surface appearances.
- [class MDLCheckerboardTexture](mdlcheckerboardtexture.md)
  A generator of texel data that creates a checkerboard pattern with two specified colors.
- [class MDLColorSwatchTexture](mdlcolorswatchtexture.md)
  A generator of texel data that creates a gradient between two specified colors.
- [class MDLNoiseTexture](mdlnoisetexture.md)
  A generator of texel data that creates a field of random noise.
- [class MDLNormalMapTexture](mdlnormalmaptexture.md)
  A generator of texel data that computes a normal map from a supplied texture.
- [class MDLURLTexture](mdlurltexture.md)
  A lightweight reference to a URL from which to load texture data.
- [class MDLTextureFilter](mdltexturefilter.md)
  A description of filtering modes for a renderer to use when sampling from a texture.
- [class MDLTextureSampler](mdltexturesampler.md)
  An object that pairs a source of texture data with sampling parameters to be used in rendering the texture.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/modelio/mdlskycubetexture)*