# stringValue

**Framework**: Foundation  
**Kind**: property

Returns the content of the receiver as a string value.

**Availability**:
- Mac Catalyst 13.0+
- macOS 10.0+

## Declaration

```swift
var stringValue: String? { get set }
```

#### Discussion

If the receiver is a node object of element kind, the content is that of any text-node children. This method recursively visits elements nodes and concatenates their text nodes in document order with no intervening spaces. If the receiver’s content is set as an object value, this method returns the string value representing the object. If the object value is one of the standard, built-in ones ([`NSNumber`](nsnumber.md), [`NSCalendarDate`](nscalendardate.md), and so on), the string value is in canonical format as defined by the W3C XML Schema Data Types specification. If the object value is not represented by one of these classes (or if the default value transformer for a class has been overridden), the string value is generated by the [`ValueTransformer`](valuetransformer.md) registered for that object type.

## See Also

- [var index: Int](xmlnode/index.md)
  Returns the index of the receiver identifying its position relative to its sibling nodes.
- [var kind: XMLNode.Kind](xmlnode/kind-swift.property.md)
  Returns the kind of node the receiver is as a constant of type [`XMLNode.Kind`](xmlnode/kind-swift.enum.md).
- [var level: Int](xmlnode/level.md)
  Returns the nesting level of the receiver within the tree hierarchy.
- [var name: String?](xmlnode/name.md)
  Returns the name of the receiver.
- [var objectValue: Any?](xmlnode/objectvalue.md)
  Returns the object value of the receiver.
- [func setStringValue(String, resolvingEntities: Bool)](xmlnode/setstringvalue(_:resolvingentities:).md)
  Sets the content of the receiver as a string value and, optionally, resolves character references, predefined entities, and user-defined entities as declared in the associated DTD.
- [var uri: String?](xmlnode/uri.md)
  Returns the URI associated with the receiver.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/xmlnode/stringvalue)*