# share()

**Framework**: Combine  
**Kind**: method

Shares the output of an upstream publisher with multiple subscribers.

**Availability**:
- iOS 13.0+
- iPadOS 13.0+
- Mac Catalyst 13.0+
- macOS 10.15+
- tvOS 13.0+
- visionOS 1.0+
- watchOS 6.0+

## Declaration

```swift
func share() -> Publishers.Share<Self>
```

#### Return Value

A class instance that shares elements received from its upstream to multiple subscribers.

#### Discussion

The publisher returned by this operator supports multiple subscribers, all of whom receive unchanged elements and completion states from the upstream publisher.

> 💡 **Tip**: [`Publishers.Share`](publishers/share.md) is effectively a combination of the [`Publishers.Multicast`](publishers/multicast.md) and [`PassthroughSubject`](passthroughsubject.md) publishers, with an implicit [`autoconnect()`](connectablepublisher/autoconnect().md).

[`Publishers.Share`](publishers/share.md) is effectively a combination of the [`Publishers.Multicast`](publishers/multicast.md) and [`PassthroughSubject`](passthroughsubject.md) publishers, with an implicit [`autoconnect()`](connectablepublisher/autoconnect().md).

The following example uses a sequence publisher as a counter to publish three random numbers, generated by a [`map(_:)`](publisher/map(_:)-99evh.md) operator. It uses a [`share()`](publisher/share().md) operator to share the same random number to each of two subscribers. This example uses a [`delay(for:tolerance:scheduler:options:)`](publisher/delay(for:tolerance:scheduler:options:).md) operator only to prevent the first subscriber from exhausting the sequence publisher immediately; an asynchronous publisher wouldn’t need this.

```swift
let pub = (1...3).publisher
    .delay(for: 1, scheduler: DispatchQueue.main)
    .map( { _ in return Int.random(in: 0...100) } )
    .print("Random")
    .share()

cancellable1 = pub
    .sink { print ("Stream 1 received: \($0)")}
cancellable2 = pub
    .sink { print ("Stream 2 received: \($0)")}

// Prints:
// Random: receive value: (20)
// Stream 1 received: 20
// Stream 2 received: 20
// Random: receive value: (85)
// Stream 1 received: 85
// Stream 2 received: 85
// Random: receive value: (98)
// Stream 1 received: 98
// Stream 2 received: 98
```

Without the [`share()`](publisher/share().md) operator, stream 1 receives three random values, followed by stream 2 receiving three different random values.

Also note that [`Publishers.Share`](publishers/share.md) is a class rather than a structure like most other publishers. This means you can use this operator to create a publisher instance that uses reference semantics.

## See Also

- [func multicast<S>(() -> S) -> Publishers.Multicast<Self, S>](observableobjectpublisher/multicast(_:).md)
  Applies a closure to create a subject that delivers elements to subscribers.
- [func multicast<S>(subject: S) -> Publishers.Multicast<Self, S>](observableobjectpublisher/multicast(subject:).md)
  Provides a subject to deliver elements to multiple subscribers.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/combine/observableobjectpublisher/share())*