# App and Environment

**Framework**: AppKit

Learn about the objects that you use to interact with the system.

## Topics

### Life Cycle
- [class NSApplication](nsapplication.md)
  An object that manages an app’s main event loop and resources used by all of that app’s objects.
- [class NSRunningApplication](nsrunningapplication.md)
  An object that can manipulate and provide information for a single instance of an app.
- [protocol NSApplicationDelegate](nsapplicationdelegate.md)
  A set of methods that manage your app’s life cycle and its interaction with common system services.
- [func NSApplicationMain(Int32, UnsafeMutablePointer<UnsafeMutablePointer<CChar>?>) -> Int32](nsapplicationmain(_:_:).md)
  Called by the main function to create and run the application.
### Environment
- [class NSWorkspace](nsworkspace.md)
  A workspace that can launch other apps and perform a variety of file-handling services.
- [NSWorkspace.OpenConfiguration](nsworkspace/openconfiguration.md)
  The configuration options for opening URLs or launching apps.
- [struct NSAppKitVersion](nsappkitversion.md)
  Constants for determining which version of AppKit is available.
- [LSMinimumSystemVersion](../BundleResources/Information-Property-List/LSMinimumSystemVersion.md)
  The minimum version of the operating system required for the app to run in macOS.
### Handoff
- [class NSUserActivity](../Foundation/NSUserActivity.md)
  A representation of the state of your app at a moment in time.
- [protocol NSUserActivityRestoring](nsuseractivityrestoring.md)
  A protocol that marks classes to restore the state of your app to continue a user activity.
### App Services
- [class NSSharingService](nssharingservice.md)
  An object that facilitates the sharing of content with social media services, or with apps like Mail or Safari.
- [class NSSharingServicePicker](nssharingservicepicker.md)
  A list of sharing services that the user can choose from.
- [protocol NSPreviewRepresentableActivityItem](nspreviewrepresentableactivityitem.md)
  An interface you adopt in custom objects that you want to share using the macOS share sheet.
- [class NSSharingServicePickerToolbarItem](nssharingservicepickertoolbaritem.md)
  A toolbar item that displays the macOS share sheet.
- [protocol NSServicesMenuRequestor](nsservicesmenurequestor.md)
  A set of methods that support interaction with items users can share through a sharing service.
- [protocol NSCloudSharingServiceDelegate](nscloudsharingservicedelegate.md)
  A set of methods for responding to the life cycle events of the cloud-sharing service.
- [Services Functions](services-functions.md)
  Configure the contents of your app’s Services menu.
### App Help
- [class NSHelpManager](nshelpmanager.md)
  An object for displaying online help for an app.
- [protocol NSUserInterfaceItemSearching](nsuserinterfaceitemsearching.md)
  A set of methods an app can implement to provide Spotlight for Help for its own custom help data.
### Errors
- [AppKit Errors](appkit-errors.md)
  These constants represent errors generated by AppKit.

## See Also

- [Documents, Data, and Pasteboard](documents-data-and-pasteboard.md)
  Organize your app’s data and preferences, and share that data on the pasteboard or in iCloud.
- [Cocoa Bindings](cocoa-bindings.md)
  Automatically synchronize your data model with your app’s interface using Cocoa Bindings.
- [Resource Management](resource-management.md)
  Manage the storyboards and nib files containing your app’s user interface, and learn how to load data that is stored in resource files.
- [App Extensions](app-extensions.md)
  Extend your app’s basic functionality to other parts of the system.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appkit/app-and-environment)*