# NSControlTextEditingDelegate

**Framework**: AppKit  
**Kind**: protocol

A set of optional methods implemented by delegates of [`NSControl`](nscontrol.md) subclasses to respond to editing actions.

**Availability**:
- macOS ?+

## Declaration

```swift
protocol NSControlTextEditingDelegate : NSObjectProtocol
```

## Topics

### Validating a Control’s Value
- [func control(NSControl, isValidObject: Any?) -> Bool](nscontroltexteditingdelegate/control(_:isvalidobject:).md)
  Invoked when the insertion point leaves a cell belonging to the specified control, but before the value of the cell’s object is displayed.
- [func control(NSControl, didFailToValidatePartialString: String, errorDescription: String?)](nscontroltexteditingdelegate/control(_:didfailtovalidatepartialstring:errordescription:).md)
  Invoked when the formatter for the cell belonging to `control` (or selected cell) rejects a partial string a user is typing into the cell.
### Responding to Text Formatting
- [func control(NSControl, didFailToFormatString: String, errorDescription: String?) -> Bool](nscontroltexteditingdelegate/control(_:didfailtoformatstring:errordescription:).md)
  Invoked when the formatter for the cell belonging to the specified control cannot convert a string to an underlying object.
### Responding to Text Editing
- [func control(NSControl, textShouldBeginEditing: NSText) -> Bool](nscontroltexteditingdelegate/control(_:textshouldbeginediting:).md)
  Invoked when the user tries to enter a character in a cell of a control that allows editing of text (such as a text field or form field).
- [func control(NSControl, textShouldEndEditing: NSText) -> Bool](nscontroltexteditingdelegate/control(_:textshouldendediting:).md)
  Invoked when the insertion point tries to leave a cell of the control that has been edited.
### Working with Text Completion
- [func control(NSControl, textView: NSTextView, completions: [String], forPartialWordRange: NSRange, indexOfSelectedItem: UnsafeMutablePointer<Int>) -> [String]](nscontroltexteditingdelegate/control(_:textview:completions:forpartialwordrange:indexofselecteditem:).md)
  Invoked to allow you to control the list of proposed text completions generated by text fields and other controls.
### Working with Key Bindings
- [func control(NSControl, textView: NSTextView, doCommandBy: Selector) -> Bool](nscontroltexteditingdelegate/control(_:textview:docommandby:).md)
  Invoked when users press keys with predefined bindings in a cell of the specified control.
### Instance Methods
- [func controlTextDidBeginEditing(Notification)](nscontroltexteditingdelegate/controltextdidbeginediting(_:).md)
  Tells the delegate that the control started editing its text content.
- [func controlTextDidChange(Notification)](nscontroltexteditingdelegate/controltextdidchange(_:).md)
  Tells the delegate that the control made changes to its text content.
- [func controlTextDidEndEditing(Notification)](nscontroltexteditingdelegate/controltextdidendediting(_:).md)
  Tells the delegate that the control finished editing its text content and committed the changes.

## Relationships

### Inherits From
- [NSObjectProtocol](../ObjectiveC/NSObjectProtocol.md)
### Inherited By
- [NSComboBoxDelegate](nscomboboxdelegate.md)
- [NSMatrixDelegate](nsmatrixdelegate.md)
- [NSOutlineViewDelegate](nsoutlineviewdelegate.md)
- [NSSearchFieldDelegate](nssearchfielddelegate.md)
- [NSTableViewDelegate](nstableviewdelegate.md)
- [NSTextFieldDelegate](nstextfielddelegate.md)
- [NSTokenFieldDelegate](nstokenfielddelegate.md)

## See Also

- [protocol NSTextFieldDelegate](nstextfielddelegate.md)
  A protocol that a text field delegate can use to control its field editor action menu.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appkit/nscontroltexteditingdelegate)*