# MLDataTable.Aggregator

**Framework**: Create ML  
**Kind**: struct

A collection of column operations you can use with a data table’s `group` method.

**Availability**:
- iOS 15.0+
- iPadOS 15.0+
- Mac Catalyst 15.0+
- macOS 10.14+
- tvOS 16.0+
- visionOS 1.0+

## Declaration

```swift
struct Aggregator
```

#### Overview

Use one or more [`MLDataTable.Aggregator`](mldatatable/aggregator.md) instances when you use the [`group(columnsNamed:aggregators:)`](mldatatable/group(columnsnamed:aggregators:).md) method. Each aggregator performs a sequence of one or more [`MLDataTable.Aggregator.Operations`](mldatatable/aggregator/operations-swift.enum.md) for a single column. Each operation makes a new column in the new data table generated by the method.

## Topics

### Creating an aggregator
- [init(operations: MLDataTable.Aggregator.Operations..., of: String)](mldatatable/aggregator/init(operations:of:).md)
  Creates an aggregator with the given operations to perform on the given column.
### Configuring an aggregator
- [var columnName: String](mldatatable/aggregator/columnname.md)
  The name of the column on which the aggregator performs operations on.
- [var operations: [MLDataTable.Aggregator.Operations]](mldatatable/aggregator/operations-swift.property.md)
  An array of operations to perform on a column.
- [MLDataTable.Aggregator.Operations](mldatatable/aggregator/operations-swift.enum.md)
  The operations that an aggregator can perform on a column in a data table.

## Relationships

### Conforms To
- [Sendable](../Swift/Sendable.md)

## See Also

- [func group<S>(columnsNamed: String..., aggregators: S) -> MLDataTable](mldatatable/group(columnsnamed:aggregators:).md)
  Creates a new data table with the given columns and adds a new column for each of the given aggregators.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/createml/mldatatable/aggregator)*