# OSLogEntryLog

**Framework**: OSLog  
**Kind**: class

A log entry.

**Availability**:
- iOS 15.0+
- iPadOS 15.0+
- Mac Catalyst 15.0+
- macOS 10.15+
- tvOS 15.0+
- visionOS 1.0+
- watchOS 8.0+

## Declaration

```swift
class OSLogEntryLog
```

#### Overview

These log entries are generated by the os_log API. To learn more about how to generate a log entry, see [`os_log(_:dso:log:_:_:)`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/os/3019240-os_log) and [`os_log(_:dso:log:type:_:)`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/os/2320718-os_log).

## Topics

### Accessing Log Levels
- [var level: OSLogEntryLog.Level](oslogentrylog/level-swift.property.md)
  The log level of the entry.
- [OSLogEntryLog.Level](oslogentrylog/level-swift.enum.md)
  The log level at which the entry was generated.

## Relationships

### Inherits From
- [OSLogEntry](oslogentry.md)
### Conforms To
- [CVarArg](../Swift/CVarArg.md)
- [CustomDebugStringConvertible](../Swift/CustomDebugStringConvertible.md)
- [CustomStringConvertible](../Swift/CustomStringConvertible.md)
- [Equatable](../Swift/Equatable.md)
- [Hashable](../Swift/Hashable.md)
- [NSCoding](../Foundation/NSCoding.md)
- [NSObjectProtocol](../ObjectiveC/NSObjectProtocol.md)
- [NSSecureCoding](../Foundation/NSSecureCoding.md)
- [OSLogEntryFromProcess](oslogentryfromprocess.md)
- [OSLogEntryWithPayload](oslogentrywithpayload.md)

## See Also

- [class OSLogEntry](oslogentry.md)
  A single entry from the unified logging system.
- [class OSLogEntryActivity](oslogentryactivity.md)
  An entry generated by an activity event.
- [class OSLogEntryBoundary](oslogentryboundary.md)
  The metadata that partitions sequences of other entries.
- [class OSLogEntrySignpost](oslogentrysignpost.md)
  An entry containing a signpost.
- [protocol OSLogEntryFromProcess](oslogentryfromprocess.md)
  A protocol that defines subclasses containing metadata about a process.
- [protocol OSLogEntryWithPayload](oslogentrywithpayload.md)
  A protocol defining subclasses that represent entries made using a handle and a format string.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/oslog/oslogentrylog)*