# OSLogEntry

**Framework**: OSLog  
**Kind**: class

A single entry from the unified logging system.

**Availability**:
- iOS 15.0+
- iPadOS 15.0+
- Mac Catalyst 15.0+
- macOS 10.15+
- tvOS 15.0+
- visionOS 1.0+
- watchOS 8.0+

## Declaration

```swift
class OSLogEntry
```

## Topics

### Accessing Log Entry Data
- [var composedMessage: String](oslogentry/composedmessage.md)
  The fully formatted message for the entry.
- [var date: Date](oslogentry/date.md)
  The timestamp of the entry.
### Accessing Store Categories
- [var storeCategory: OSLogEntry.StoreCategory](oslogentry/storecategory-swift.property.md)
  The current log entry’s storage tag.
- [OSLogEntry.StoreCategory](oslogentry/storecategory-swift.enum.md)
  A classification of how the entry was to be stored and rotated at the point when it was created.

## Relationships

### Inherits From
- [NSObject](../ObjectiveC/NSObject-swift.class.md)
### Inherited By
- [OSLogEntryActivity](oslogentryactivity.md)
- [OSLogEntryBoundary](oslogentryboundary.md)
- [OSLogEntryLog](oslogentrylog.md)
- [OSLogEntrySignpost](oslogentrysignpost.md)
### Conforms To
- [CVarArg](../Swift/CVarArg.md)
- [Copyable](../Swift/Copyable.md)
- [CustomDebugStringConvertible](../Swift/CustomDebugStringConvertible.md)
- [CustomStringConvertible](../Swift/CustomStringConvertible.md)
- [Equatable](../Swift/Equatable.md)
- [Hashable](../Swift/Hashable.md)
- [NSCoding](../Foundation/NSCoding.md)
- [NSObjectProtocol](../ObjectiveC/NSObjectProtocol.md)
- [NSSecureCoding](../Foundation/NSSecureCoding.md)

## See Also

- [class OSLogEntryActivity](oslogentryactivity.md)
  An entry generated by an activity event.
- [class OSLogEntryBoundary](oslogentryboundary.md)
  The metadata that partitions sequences of other entries.
- [class OSLogEntryLog](oslogentrylog.md)
  A log entry.
- [class OSLogEntrySignpost](oslogentrysignpost.md)
  An entry containing a signpost.
- [protocol OSLogEntryFromProcess](oslogentryfromprocess.md)
  A protocol that defines subclasses containing metadata about a process.
- [protocol OSLogEntryWithPayload](oslogentrywithpayload.md)
  A protocol defining subclasses that represent entries made using a handle and a format string.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/oslog/oslogentry)*