# OSLog

**Framework**: OSLog  
**Kind**: module

A unified logging system for the reading of historical data.

**Availability**:
- iOS 15.0+
- iPadOS 15.0+
- Mac Catalyst 15.0+
- macOS 10.15+
- tvOS 15.0+
- visionOS 1.0+
- watchOS 8.0+

#### Overview

The OSLog framework allows you to read logs. With the unified logging system, you can build custom debugging and analysis tools to be used alongside Apple tools like Instruments and Console. To learn more about how to create logs, see [`Logging`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/os/logging).

## Topics

### Read Log Entries
- [class OSLogStore](oslogstore.md)
  A set of entries from the unified logging system.
- [class OSLogEnumerator](oslogenumerator.md)
  An enumerator that can access and list log entries.
### Log Entries
- [class OSLogEntry](oslogentry.md)
  A single entry from the unified logging system.
- [class OSLogEntryActivity](oslogentryactivity.md)
  An entry generated by an activity event.
- [class OSLogEntryBoundary](oslogentryboundary.md)
  The metadata that partitions sequences of other entries.
- [class OSLogEntryLog](oslogentrylog.md)
  A log entry.
- [class OSLogEntrySignpost](oslogentrysignpost.md)
  An entry containing a signpost.
- [protocol OSLogEntryFromProcess](oslogentryfromprocess.md)
  A protocol that defines subclasses containing metadata about a process.
- [protocol OSLogEntryWithPayload](oslogentrywithpayload.md)
  A protocol defining subclasses that represent entries made using a handle and a format string.
### Entry Data
- [class OSLogMessageComponent](oslogmessagecomponent.md)
  The message arguments for a particular entry.
- [class OSLogPosition](oslogposition.md)
  A representation of a point in a sequence of entries in the unified logging system.
### Reference
- [OSLog Enumerations](oslog-enumerations.md)


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/OSLog)*