# F5

**Framework**: XCUIAutomation  
**Kind**: property

A constant that represents the F5 key.

**Availability**:
- iOS ?+
- iPadOS ?+
- Mac Catalyst ?+
- macOS ?+
- tvOS ?+
- visionOS ?+
- watchOS ?+
- Xcode 16.3+

## Declaration

```swift
static let F5: XCUIKeyboardKey
```

## See Also

- [static let secondaryFn: XCUIKeyboardKey](xcuikeyboardkey/secondaryfn.md)
  A constant that represents the Function key.
- [static let F1: XCUIKeyboardKey](xcuikeyboardkey/f1.md)
  A constant that represents the F1 key.
- [static let F2: XCUIKeyboardKey](xcuikeyboardkey/f2.md)
  A constant that represents the F2 key.
- [static let F3: XCUIKeyboardKey](xcuikeyboardkey/f3.md)
  A constant that represents the F3 key.
- [static let F4: XCUIKeyboardKey](xcuikeyboardkey/f4.md)
  A constant that represents the F4 key.
- [static let F6: XCUIKeyboardKey](xcuikeyboardkey/f6.md)
  A constant that represents the F6 key.
- [static let F7: XCUIKeyboardKey](xcuikeyboardkey/f7.md)
  A constant that represents the F7 key.
- [static let F8: XCUIKeyboardKey](xcuikeyboardkey/f8.md)
  A constant that represents the F8 key.
- [static let F9: XCUIKeyboardKey](xcuikeyboardkey/f9.md)
  A constant that represents the F9 key.
- [static let F10: XCUIKeyboardKey](xcuikeyboardkey/f10.md)
  A constant that represents the F10 key.
- [static let F11: XCUIKeyboardKey](xcuikeyboardkey/f11.md)
  A constant that represents the F11 key.
- [static let F12: XCUIKeyboardKey](xcuikeyboardkey/f12.md)
  A constant that represents the F12 key.
- [static let F13: XCUIKeyboardKey](xcuikeyboardkey/f13.md)
  A constant that represents the F13 key.
- [static let F14: XCUIKeyboardKey](xcuikeyboardkey/f14.md)
  A constant that represents the F14 key.
- [static let F15: XCUIKeyboardKey](xcuikeyboardkey/f15.md)
  A constant that represents the F15 key.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xcuiautomation/xcuikeyboardkey/f5)*