# Preview(_:as:widget:timelineProvider:)

**Framework**: WidgetKit  
**Kind**: macro

Preview a widget with a static configuration, using the specified timeline provider.

**Availability**:
- iOS 17.0+
- iPadOS 17.0+
- Mac Catalyst ?+
- macOS 14.0+
- visionOS 26.0+ (Beta)
- watchOS 10.0+

## Declaration

```swift
@freestanding
(declaration) macro Preview<Widget, Provider>(_ name: String? = nil, as family: WidgetFamily, widget: @escaping () -> Widget, timelineProvider: @escaping () -> Provider) where Widget : Widget, Provider : TimelineProvider
```

## Mentions

- [Previewing widgets and Live Activities in Xcode](previewing-widgets-and-live-activities-in-xcode.md)

#### Overview

The preview will allow you to step through the timeline generated by the provider. It might be helpful to instantiate your timeline provider with sample data.

> **Note**: The timeline provider must be of the type expected by the widget. (This will be enforced at run-time.)

## Parameters

- `name`: An optional display name for the preview, which will appear in the canvas.
- `family`: The widget family to display.
- `widget`: A closure producing the widget to be previewed.
- `timelineProvider`: A closure producing the timeline provider that will generate the preview’s timeline.

## See Also

- [macro Preview<Widget, Provider>(String?, as: WidgetFamily, using: Provider.Intent, widget: () -> Widget, timelineProvider: () -> Provider)](preview(_:as:using:widget:timelineprovider:)-4ljg1.md)
  Preview a widget with an app intent configuration, using the specified timeline provider.
- [macro Preview<Widget, Provider>(String?, as: WidgetFamily, using: Provider.Intent, widget: () -> Widget, timelineProvider: () -> Provider)](preview(_:as:using:widget:timelineprovider:)-3df1l.md)
  Preview a widget with an intent configuration, using the specified timeline provider.
- [macro Preview<Widget>(String?, as: WidgetFamily, widget: () -> Widget, timeline: () async -> [any TimelineEntry])](preview(_:as:widget:timeline:).md)
  Preview a timeline-style widget.
- [macro Preview<Widget, Entry>(String?, widget: () -> Widget, relevanceEntries: () async -> [Entry])](preview(_:widget:relevanceentries:).md)
  Preview a relevance configuration widget.
- [macro Preview<Widget, Provider>(String?, widget: () -> Widget, relevanceProvider: () -> Provider)](preview(_:widget:relevanceprovider:).md)
  Preview a widget with a relevance configuration, using the specified relevance provider.
- [macro Preview<Widget, Provider>(String?, widget: () -> Widget, relevanceProvider: () -> Provider, relevance: () async -> WidgetRelevance<Provider.Configuration>)](preview(_:widget:relevanceprovider:relevance:).md)
  Preview a widget with a relevance configuration, using the specified relevances.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/widgetkit/preview(_:as:widget:timelineprovider:))*