# Preview(_:widget:relevanceProvider:relevance:)

**Framework**: WidgetKit  
**Kind**: macro

Preview a widget with a relevance configuration, using the specified relevances.

**Availability**:
- watchOS 26.0+ (Beta)

## Declaration

```swift
@freestanding
(declaration) macro Preview<Widget, Provider>(_ name: String? = nil, widget: @escaping @MainActor () -> Widget, relevanceProvider: @escaping @MainActor () -> Provider, relevance: @escaping @MainActor () async -> WidgetRelevance<Provider.Configuration>) where Widget : Widget, Provider : RelevanceEntriesProvider
```

#### Overview

The preview will allow you to step through the entries generated by the provider by specifying the exact relevance to be used. Creating your provider with sample data and specifying the exact `relevance` to be used allows you to test how entries are generated and

> **Note**: The relevance provider must be of the type expected by the widget. (This will be enforced at run-time.)

## Parameters

- `name`: An optional display name for the preview, which will appear in the canvas.
- `widget`: A closure producing the widget to be previewed.
- `relevanceProvider`: A closure producing the relevance provider that will generate the preview’s entries.
- `relevance`: A closure producing the relevance that will be passed back to the provider.

## See Also

- [macro Preview<Widget, Provider>(String?, as: WidgetFamily, widget: () -> Widget, timelineProvider: () -> Provider)](preview(_:as:widget:timelineprovider:).md)
  Preview a widget with a static configuration, using the specified timeline provider.
- [macro Preview<Widget, Provider>(String?, as: WidgetFamily, using: Provider.Intent, widget: () -> Widget, timelineProvider: () -> Provider)](preview(_:as:using:widget:timelineprovider:)-4ljg1.md)
  Preview a widget with an app intent configuration, using the specified timeline provider.
- [macro Preview<Widget, Provider>(String?, as: WidgetFamily, using: Provider.Intent, widget: () -> Widget, timelineProvider: () -> Provider)](preview(_:as:using:widget:timelineprovider:)-3df1l.md)
  Preview a widget with an intent configuration, using the specified timeline provider.
- [macro Preview<Widget>(String?, as: WidgetFamily, widget: () -> Widget, timeline: () async -> [any TimelineEntry])](preview(_:as:widget:timeline:).md)
  Preview a timeline-style widget.
- [macro Preview<Widget, Entry>(String?, widget: () -> Widget, relevanceEntries: () async -> [Entry])](preview(_:widget:relevanceentries:).md)
  Preview a relevance configuration widget.
- [macro Preview<Widget, Provider>(String?, widget: () -> Widget, relevanceProvider: () -> Provider)](preview(_:widget:relevanceprovider:).md)
  Preview a widget with a relevance configuration, using the specified relevance provider.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/widgetkit/preview(_:widget:relevanceprovider:relevance:))*