# Logging and Handling Constants

**Framework**: Exception Handling

Use one or more of the following constants in the parameter of [`setExceptionHandlingMask(_:)`](nsexceptionhandler/setexceptionhandlingmask(_:).md) to specify the types of exceptions that the exception handler should monitor and whether it should handle or log them.

#### Overview

When exception-handling domains are nested, [`NSLogTopLevelExceptionMask`](nslogtoplevelexceptionmask.md) and [`NSHandleTopLevelExceptionMask`](nshandletoplevelexceptionmask.md) deal with exceptions that would make it to the top two levels of exception handlers. In the main thread of a Cocoa application, the top-level handler is the global [`NSApplication`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/AppKit/NSApplication) instance.

## Topics

### Constants
- [var NSLogUncaughtExceptionMask: Int](nsloguncaughtexceptionmask.md)
  The exception handler logs uncaught exceptions.
- [var NSHandleUncaughtExceptionMask: Int](nshandleuncaughtexceptionmask.md)
  The exception handler handles uncaught exceptions by terminating the thread in which they occur.
- [var NSLogUncaughtSystemExceptionMask: Int](nsloguncaughtsystemexceptionmask.md)
  The exception handler logs uncaught system exceptions.
- [var NSHandleUncaughtSystemExceptionMask: Int](nshandleuncaughtsystemexceptionmask.md)
  The exception handler handles uncaught system exceptions by converting them to [`NSException`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/Foundation/NSException) objects containing a stack trace.
- [var NSLogUncaughtRuntimeErrorMask: Int](nsloguncaughtruntimeerrormask.md)
  The exception handler logs uncaught runtime errors.
- [var NSHandleUncaughtRuntimeErrorMask: Int](nshandleuncaughtruntimeerrormask.md)
  The exception handler handles uncaught runtime errors by converting them to [`NSException`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/Foundation/NSException) objects containing a stack trace.
- [var NSLogTopLevelExceptionMask: Int](nslogtoplevelexceptionmask.md)
  The exception handler logs exceptions that would be caught by the top-level handler.
- [var NSHandleTopLevelExceptionMask: Int](nshandletoplevelexceptionmask.md)
  The exception handler handles exceptions caught by the top-level handler by converting them to [`NSException`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/Foundation/NSException) objects containing a stack trace.
- [var NSLogOtherExceptionMask: Int](nslogotherexceptionmask.md)
  The exception handler logs exceptions caught by handlers lower than the top-level handler.
- [var NSHandleOtherExceptionMask: Int](nshandleotherexceptionmask.md)
  The exception handler handles exceptions caught by handlers lower than the top-level handler by converting them to [`NSException`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/Foundation/NSException) objects containing a stack trace.

## See Also

- [System Hang Constants](system-hang-constants.md)
  Use one or more of the following constants in the parameter of [`setExceptionHangingMask(_:)`](nsexceptionhandler/setexceptionhangingmask(_:).md) to specify the types of exceptions that cause the exception to halt execution so a debugger can be attached.
- [Exception Global String Constants](exception-global-string-constants.md)
  Two of the following global string constants identify exceptions generated by the framework for Objective-C runtime errors and system exceptions such as invalid memory accesses. The other constant is used as a key to access the stack trace in the [`userInfo`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/Foundation/NSException/userInfo-swift.property) dictionary of an [`NSException`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/Foundation/NSException) object, when requested.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/exceptionhandling/logging-and-handling-constants)*