# System Hang Constants

**Framework**: Exception Handling

Use one or more of the following constants in the parameter of [`setExceptionHangingMask(_:)`](nsexceptionhandler/setexceptionhangingmask(_:).md) to specify the types of exceptions that cause the exception to halt execution so a debugger can be attached.

#### Overview

When exception-handling domains are nested, [`NSHangOnTopLevelExceptionMask`](nshangontoplevelexceptionmask.md) deals with exceptions that would make it to the top two levels of exception handlers. In the main thread of a Cocoa application, the top-level handler is the global [`NSApplication`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/AppKit/NSApplication) instance.

## Topics

### Constants
- [var NSHangOnUncaughtExceptionMask: Int](nshangonuncaughtexceptionmask.md)
  The exception handler suspends execution when it detects an uncaught exception (other than a system exception or runtime error).
- [var NSHangOnUncaughtSystemExceptionMask: Int](nshangonuncaughtsystemexceptionmask.md)
  The exception handler suspends execution when it detects an uncaught system exception.
- [var NSHangOnUncaughtRuntimeErrorMask: Int](nshangonuncaughtruntimeerrormask.md)
  The exception handler suspends execution when it detects an uncaught runtime error.
- [var NSHangOnTopLevelExceptionMask: Int](nshangontoplevelexceptionmask.md)
  The exception handler suspends execution when it detects an exception that would be handled by the top-level handler.
- [var NSHangOnOtherExceptionMask: Int](nshangonotherexceptionmask.md)
  The exception handler suspends execution when it detects an exception that would be handled by an object other than the top-level handler.

## See Also

- [Logging and Handling Constants](logging-and-handling-constants.md)
  Use one or more of the following constants in the parameter of [`setExceptionHandlingMask(_:)`](nsexceptionhandler/setexceptionhandlingmask(_:).md) to specify the types of exceptions that the exception handler should monitor and whether it should handle or log them.
- [Exception Global String Constants](exception-global-string-constants.md)
  Two of the following global string constants identify exceptions generated by the framework for Objective-C runtime errors and system exceptions such as invalid memory accesses. The other constant is used as a key to access the stack trace in the [`userInfo`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/Foundation/NSException/userInfo-swift.property) dictionary of an [`NSException`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/Foundation/NSException) object, when requested.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/exceptionhandling/system-hang-constants)*