# init(cvPixelBuffer:properties:options:)

**Framework**: Core Image  
**Kind**: instctr

Creates a filter from a Core Video pixel buffer.

**Availability**:
- iOS 10.0+ - Deprecated in 15.0
- iPadOS 10.0+ - Deprecated in 15.0
- Mac Catalyst 13.1+ - Deprecated in 15.0
- macOS 10.12+ - Deprecated in 12.0
- tvOS 10.0+ - Deprecated in 15.0
- visionOS 1.0+ - Deprecated in 1.0

## Declaration

```swift
init!(cvPixelBuffer pixelBuffer: CVPixelBuffer!, properties: [AnyHashable : Any]!, options: [CIRAWFilterOption : Any]! = [:])
```

#### Return_value

A [`CIFilter`](cifilter.md) object.

#### Discussion

The first step when working with RAW images in Core Image is to process the image using either [`init(imageData:options:)`](cifilter/1437879-init.md) or [`init(imageURL:options:)`](cifilter/1438096-init.md). These initializers create a [`CIFilter`](cifilter.md) object with an [`outputImage`](cifilter/1438169-outputimage.md) which is a [`CIImage`](ciimage.md) representation of the supplied RAW image. 

> â— **Important**: Core Image doesn't process the supplied RAW image until the filter's [`outputImage`](cifilter/1438169-outputimage.md) is rendered. For this reason, if you supply this initializer with a RAW image of an unsupported format, the filter object will be initialized but its [`outputImage`](cifilter/1438169-outputimage.md) will be nil.

Core Image doesn't process the supplied RAW image until the filter's [`outputImage`](cifilter/1438169-outputimage.md) is rendered. For this reason, if you supply this initializer with a RAW image of an unsupported format, the filter object will be initialized but its [`outputImage`](cifilter/1438169-outputimage.md) will be nil.

## Parameters

- `pixelBuffer`: 
- `properties`: A properties dictionary. Defines the properties of the pixel buffer.
- `options`: An options dictionary.  You can pass any of the keys defined in  .

## See Also

- [init!(imageData: Data!, options: [CIRAWFilterOption : Any]!)](cifilter/1437879-init.md)
  Creates a filter that allows the processing of RAW images.
- [init!(imageURL: URL!, options: [CIRAWFilterOption : Any]!)](cifilter/1438096-init.md)
  Creates a filter that allows the processing of RAW images.
- [struct CIRAWFilterOption](cirawfilteroption.md)
- [class func serializedXMP(from: [CIFilter], inputImageExtent: CGRect) -> Data?](cifilter/1438006-serializedxmp.md)
  Serializes filter parameters into XMP form that is suitable for embedding in an image.
- [class func filterArray(fromSerializedXMP: Data, inputImageExtent: CGRect, error: NSErrorPointer) -> [CIFilter]](cifilter/1438237-filterarray.md)
  Returns an array of filter objects de-serialized from XMP data.
- [class func supportedRawCameraModels() -> [String]!](cifilter/3242782-supportedrawcameramodels.md)


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/coreimage/cifilter/2138288-init)*