# mix()

**Framework**: Core Image  
**Kind**: clm

Blends two images together.

**Availability**:
- iOS 13.0+
- iPadOS 13.0+
- macOS 10.15+
- tvOS 13.0+
- visionOS 1.0+

## Declaration

```swift
class func mix() -> any CIFilter & CIMix
```

#### Return_value

The modified image.

#### Discussion

This method applies the mix filter to an image. The effect uses the amount property to interpolate between the input image and the background image, resulting in both images visible in the output image.

The mix filter uses the following properties:

The following code creates a filter that combines the input and background images to create one image with both images visible:

```swift
func mix(inputImage: CIImage, backgroundImage: CIImage) -> CIImage {
    let mixFilter = CIFilter.mix()
    mixFilter.inputImage = inputImage
    mixFilter.backgroundImage = backgroundImage
    mixFilter.amount = 0.25
    return mixFilter.outputImage!
}
```

![Three pictures side by side. The first photo on the left is of the New York City skyline taken from across a river on an overcast day, with a single boat in the center of the image. The center photo is of multiple colorful rocks with green moss covering them. In the photo on the right, a mix filter is applied, and the image has detail from both the city skyline and mossy rock photo.](https://docs-assets.developer.apple.com/published/84ea135b30/rendered2x-1590529244.png)

## See Also

- [class func blendWithAlphaMask() -> any CIFilter & CIBlendWithMask](cifilter/3228272-blendwithalphamask.md)
  Blends two images by using an alpha mask image.
- [class func blendWithBlueMask() -> any CIFilter & CIBlendWithMask](cifilter/3228273-blendwithbluemask.md)
  Blends two images by using a blue mask image.
- [class func blendWithMask() -> any CIFilter & CIBlendWithMask](cifilter/3228274-blendwithmask.md)
  Blends two images by using a mask image.
- [class func blendWithRedMask() -> any CIFilter & CIBlendWithMask](cifilter/3228275-blendwithredmask.md)
  Blends two images by using a red mask image.
- [class func bloom() -> any CIFilter & CIBloom](cifilter/3228276-bloom.md)
  Adjusts an image’s colors by applying a blur effect.
- [class func comicEffect() -> any CIFilter & CIComicEffect](cifilter/3228298-comiceffect.md)
  Creates an image with a comic book effect.
- [class func coreMLModel() -> any CIFilter & CICoreMLModel](cifilter/3228305-coremlmodel.md)
  Filters an image with a Core ML model.
- [class func crystallize() -> any CIFilter & CICrystallize](cifilter/3228306-crystallize.md)
  Creates an image made with a series of colorful polygons.
- [class func depthOfField() -> any CIFilter & CIDepthOfField](cifilter/3228308-depthoffield.md)
  Simulates a depth of field effect.
- [class func edges() -> any CIFilter & CIEdges](cifilter/3228321-edges.md)
  Hilghlights edges of objects found within an image.
- [class func edgeWork() -> any CIFilter & CIEdgeWork](cifilter/3228320-edgework.md)
  Produces a black-and-white image that looks similar to a woodblock print.
- [class func gaborGradients() -> any CIFilter & CIGaborGradients](cifilter/3325508-gaborgradients.md)
  Highlights textures in an image.
- [class func gloom() -> any CIFilter & CIGloom](cifilter/3228334-gloom.md)
  Adjusts an image’s color by applying a gloom filter.
- [class func heightFieldFromMask() -> any CIFilter & CIHeightFieldFromMask](cifilter/3228337-heightfieldfrommask.md)
  Creates a realistic shaded height-field image.
- [class func hexagonalPixellate() -> any CIFilter & CIHexagonalPixellate](cifilter/3228338-hexagonalpixellate.md)
  Creates an image made of a series of colorful hexagons.
- [class func highlightShadowAdjust() -> any CIFilter & CIHighlightShadowAdjust](cifilter/3228339-highlightshadowadjust.md)
  Adjusts the highlights of colors to reduce shadows.
- [class func lineOverlay() -> any CIFilter & CILineOverlay](cifilter/3228347-lineoverlay.md)
  Creates an image that resembles a sketch of the outlines of objects.
- [class func personSegmentation() -> any CIFilter & CIPersonSegmentation](cifilter/4401873-personsegmentation.md)
  Creates a mask where red pixels indicate areas of the image that are likely to contain a person.
- [class func pixellate() -> any CIFilter & CIPixellate](cifilter/3228393-pixellate.md)
  Enlarges the colors of the pixels to create a blurred effect.
- [class func pointillize() -> any CIFilter & CIPointillize](cifilter/3228394-pointillize.md)
  Applies a pointillize effect to an image.
- [class func saliencyMap() -> any CIFilter & CISaliencyMap](cifilter/3228399-saliencymap.md)
  Creates a saliency map from an image.
- [class func shadedMaterial() -> any CIFilter & CIShadedMaterial](cifilter/3228403-shadedmaterial.md)
  Creates a shaded image from a height-field image.
- [class func sobelGradients() -> any CIFilter & CISobelGradients](cifilter/4401876-sobelgradients.md)
  Calculates the Sobel gradients for an image.
- [class func spotColor() -> any CIFilter & CISpotColor](cifilter/3228413-spotcolor.md)
  Replaces colors of an image with specifed colors.
- [class func spotLight() -> any CIFilter & CISpotLight](cifilter/3228414-spotlight.md)
  Highlights a definined area of the image.
- [class func cannyEdgeDetector() -> any CIFilter & CICannyEdgeDetector](cifilter/4401852-cannyedgedetector.md)
  Applies the Canny edge-detection algorithm to an image.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/coreimage/cifilter/3228362-mix)*