# FFPERIODIC

**Framework**: Force Feedback  
**Kind**: struct

A structure containing type-specific information for certain effects.

**Availability**:
- Mac Catalyst 13.0+
- macOS 10.2+

## Declaration

```swift
struct FFPERIODIC
```

#### Overview

Used with the SINE, SQUARE, TRIANGLE, SAWTOOTHUP, and SAWTOOTHDOWN effects.

A pointer to a single FFPERIODIC structure for an effect is passed in the lpvTypeSpecificParams member of the FFEFFECT structure. A Force Feedback plugIn cannot provide support for all values in the  member. In this case, the value is rounded off to the nearest supported value.

## Topics

### Initializers
- [init()](ffperiodic/init.md)
- [init(dwMagnitude: DWORD, lOffset: LONG, dwPhase: DWORD, dwPeriod: DWORD)](ffperiodic/init(dwmagnitude:loffset:dwphase:dwperiod:).md)
### Instance Properties
- [var dwMagnitude: DWORD](ffperiodic/dwmagnitude.md)
  Magnitude of the effect, in the range from 0 through 10,000. If an envelope is applied to this effect, the value represents the magnitude of the sustain. If no envelope is applied, the value represents the amplitude of the entire effect.
- [var dwPeriod: DWORD](ffperiodic/dwperiod.md)
  Period of the effect, in microseconds.
- [var dwPhase: DWORD](ffperiodic/dwphase.md)
  Position in the cycle of the periodic effect at which playback begins, in the range from 0 through 35,999.
- [var lOffset: LONG](ffperiodic/loffset.md)
  Offset of the effect. The range of forces generated by the effect is  minus  to  plus . The value of the  member is also the baseline for any envelope that is applied to the effect.

## Relationships

### Conforms To
- [BitwiseCopyable](../Swift/BitwiseCopyable.md)
- [Sendable](../Swift/Sendable.md)

## See Also

- [struct FFCAPABILITIES](ffcapabilities.md)
  Used by the FFDeviceGetForceFeedbackCapabilities method to retrieve device force-feedback capabilities.
- [struct FFCONDITION](ffcondition.md)
  A structure containing type-specific information for certain effects.
- [struct FFCONSTANTFORCE](ffconstantforce.md)
  Contains type-specific information for the CONSTANTFORCE effect.
- [struct FFCUSTOMFORCE](ffcustomforce.md)
  Contains type-specific information for the CUSTOMFORCE effect.
- [struct FFEFFECT](ffeffect.md)
  UsUsed by the FFDeviceCreateEffect method to initialize a new effect object. It is also used by the FFEffectSetParameters and FFEffectGetParameters functions.
- [struct FFEFFESCAPE](ffeffescape.md)
  The FFEFFESCAPE structure passes hardware-specific data directly to the Force Feedback plugIn.
- [struct FFENVELOPE](ffenvelope.md)
  Used by the FFEFFECT structure to specify the optional envelope parameters for an effect.
- [struct FFRAMPFORCE](fframpforce.md)
  Contains type-specific information for the RAMPFORCE effect.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/forcefeedback/ffperiodic)*