# CLanguageStandard.iso9899_2018

**Framework**: PackageDescription  
**Kind**: case

The identifier for the ISO C 2017 language standard.

**Availability**:
- SwiftPM 5.4+

## Declaration

```swift
case iso9899_2018
```

## See Also

- [CLanguageStandard.c11](clanguagestandard/c11.md)
  The identifier for the ISO C 2011 language standard.
- [CLanguageStandard.c17](clanguagestandard/c17.md)
  The identifier for the ISO C 2017 language stadard.
- [CLanguageStandard.c18](clanguagestandard/c18.md)
  The identifier for the ISO C 2017 language standard.
- [CLanguageStandard.c2x](clanguagestandard/c2x.md)
  The identifier for the ISO C2x draft language standard.
- [CLanguageStandard.c89](clanguagestandard/c89.md)
  The identifier for the ISO C 1989 language standard.
- [CLanguageStandard.c90](clanguagestandard/c90.md)
  The identifier for the ISO C 1990 language standard.
- [CLanguageStandard.c99](clanguagestandard/c99.md)
  The identifier for the ISO C 1999 language standard.
- [CLanguageStandard.gnu11](clanguagestandard/gnu11.md)
  The identifier for the ISO C 2011 language standard with GNU extensions.
- [CLanguageStandard.gnu17](clanguagestandard/gnu17.md)
  The identifier for the ISO C 2017 language standard with GNU extensions.
- [CLanguageStandard.gnu18](clanguagestandard/gnu18.md)
  The identifier for the ISO C 2017 language standard with GNU extensions.
- [CLanguageStandard.gnu2x](clanguagestandard/gnu2x.md)
  The identifier for the ISO C2x draft language standard with GNU extensions.
- [CLanguageStandard.gnu89](clanguagestandard/gnu89.md)
  The identifier for the ISO C 1990 language standard with GNU extensions.
- [CLanguageStandard.gnu90](clanguagestandard/gnu90.md)
  The identifier for the ISO C 1990 language standard with GNU extensions.
- [CLanguageStandard.gnu99](clanguagestandard/gnu99.md)
  The identifier for the ISO C 1999 language standard with GNU extensions.
- [CLanguageStandard.iso9899_1990](clanguagestandard/iso9899_1990.md)
  The identifier for the ISO C 1990 language standard.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/packagedescription/clanguagestandard/iso9899_2018)*