# init(contentsOf:)

**Framework**: Core Image  
**Kind**: instctr

Initializes an image object by reading an image from a URL.

**Availability**:
- iOS 5.0+
- iPadOS 5.0+
- Mac Catalyst 13.1+
- macOS 10.4+
- tvOS 9.0+
- visionOS 1.0+

## Declaration

```swift
init?(contentsOf url: URL)
```

#### Return_value

The initialized image object, or `nil` if the object could not be initialized.

## Parameters

- `url`: The location of the image file to read.

## See Also

- [class func empty() -> CIImage](ciimage/1438023-empty.md)
  Creates and returns an empty image object.
- [init?(image: UIImage)](ciimage/1624119-init.md)
  Initializes an image object with the specified UIKit image object.
- [init?(image: UIImage, options: [CIImageOption : Any]?)](ciimage/1624098-init.md)
  Initializes an image object with the specified UIKit image object, using the specified options.
- [init?(contentsOf: URL, options: [CIImageOption : Any]?)](ciimage/1437867-init.md)
  Initializes an image object by reading an image from a URL, using the specified options.
- [init(cgImage: CGImage)](ciimage/1437986-init.md)
  Initializes an image object with a Quartz 2D image.
- [init(cgImage: CGImage, options: [CIImageOption : Any]?)](ciimage/1437764-init.md)
  Initializes an image object with a Quartz 2D image, using the specified options.
- [init(cgImageSource: CGImageSource, index: Int, options: [CIImageOption : Any]?)](ciimage/3152399-init.md)
- [init?(data: Data)](ciimage/1437925-init.md)
  Initializes an image object with the supplied image data.
- [init?(data: Data, options: [CIImageOption : Any]?)](ciimage/1438032-init.md)
  Initializes an image object with the supplied image data, using the specified options.
- [init(bitmapData: Data, bytesPerRow: Int, size: CGSize, format: CIFormat, colorSpace: CGColorSpace?)](ciimage/1437857-init.md)
  Initializes an image object with bitmap data. 
- [init?(bitmapImageRep: NSBitmapImageRep)](ciimage/1535335-init.md)
  Initializes an image object with the specified bitmap image representation.
- [init(imageProvider: Any, size: Int, Int, format: CIFormat, colorSpace: CGColorSpace?, options: [CIImageOption : Any]?)](ciimage/1437868-init.md)
  Initializes an image object with  data provided by an image provider, using the specified options. 
- [init?(depthData: AVDepthData)](ciimage/2998421-init.md)
- [init?(depthData: AVDepthData, options: [String : Any]?)](ciimage/2998422-init.md)
- [init?(portaitEffectsMatte: AVPortraitEffectsMatte)](ciimage/2998423-init.md)
- [init?(portaitEffectsMatte: AVPortraitEffectsMatte, options: [CIImageOption : Any]?)](ciimage/2998424-init.md)
- [init?(semanticSegmentationMatte: AVSemanticSegmentationMatte)](ciimage/3242779-init.md)
- [init?(semanticSegmentationMatte: AVSemanticSegmentationMatte, options: [CIImageOption : Any]?)](ciimage/3242780-init.md)
- [init(cvImageBuffer: CVImageBuffer)](ciimage/1438012-init.md)
  Initializes an image object from the contents of a Core Video image buffer.
- [init(cvImageBuffer: CVImageBuffer, options: [CIImageOption : Any]?)](ciimage/1437617-init.md)
  Initializes an image object from the contents of a Core Video image buffer, using the specified options.
- [init(cvPixelBuffer: CVPixelBuffer)](ciimage/1438072-init.md)
  Initializes an image object from the contents of a Core Video pixel buffer.
- [init(cvPixelBuffer: CVPixelBuffer, options: [CIImageOption : Any]?)](ciimage/1438209-init.md)
  Initializes an image object from the contents of a Core Video pixel buffer using the specified options.
- [init?(mtlTexture: any MTLTexture, options: [CIImageOption : Any]?)](ciimage/1437890-init.md)
  Initializes an image object with data supplied by a Metal texture.
- [init(ioSurface: IOSurfaceRef)](ciimage/1438030-init.md)
  Initializes an image with the contents of an IOSurface.
- [init(ioSurface: IOSurfaceRef, options: [CIImageOption : Any]?)](ciimage/1438181-init.md)
  Initializes, using the specified options, an image with the contents of an IOSurface.
- [+ imageWithContentsOfURL:](ciimage/1547027-imagewithcontentsofurl.md)
  Creates and returns an image object from the contents of a file.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/coreimage/ciimage/1437908-init)*