# NegativeLookahead

**Framework**: RegexBuilder  
**Kind**: struct

A regex component that allows a match to continue only if its contents do not match at the given location.

**Availability**:
- iOS 16.0+
- iPadOS 16.0+
- Mac Catalyst 16.0+
- macOS 13.0+
- tvOS 16.0+
- visionOS ?+
- watchOS 9.0+

## Declaration

```swift
struct NegativeLookahead<Output>
```

#### Overview

A negative lookahead is a zero-length assertion that its included regex does not match at a particular position. Lookaheads do not advance the overall matching position in the input string — once a lookahead succeeds, matching continues in the regex from the same position.

## Topics

### Initializers
- [init<R>(R)](negativelookahead/init(_:)-3fsnx.md)
  Creates a negative lookahead from the given regex component.
- [init<R>(() -> R)](negativelookahead/init(_:)-4fh1d.md)
  Creates a negative lookahead from the regex generated by the given builder closure.

## Relationships

### Conforms To
- [Copyable](../swift/copyable.md)
- [RegexComponent](../swift/regexcomponent.md)

## See Also

- [struct CharacterClass](characterclass.md)
  A class of characters that match in a regex.
- [struct Anchor](anchor.md)
  A regex component that matches a specific condition at a particular position in an input string.
- [struct Lookahead](lookahead.md)
  A regex component that allows a match to continue only if its contents match at the given location.
- [struct ChoiceOf](choiceof.md)
  A regex component that chooses exactly one of its constituent regex components when matching.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/regexbuilder/negativelookahead)*