# Status and Error Codes

**Framework**: System Configuration

The status or error code generated by the most recent System Configuration function call.

## Topics

### Constants
- [var kSCStatusOK: Int](kscstatusok.md)
  The call was successful.
- [var kSCStatusFailed: Int](kscstatusfailed.md)
  A nonspecific failure occurred.
- [var kSCStatusInvalidArgument: Int](kscstatusinvalidargument.md)
  An invalid argument was specified.
- [var kSCStatusAccessError: Int](kscstatusaccesserror.md)
  Permission is denied; you must be root to obtain a lock. As a result, the function could not create or access preferences.
- [var kSCStatusNoKey: Int](kscstatusnokey.md)
  No such key.
- [var kSCStatusKeyExists: Int](kscstatuskeyexists.md)
- [var kSCStatusLocked: Int](kscstatuslocked.md)
  A lock is already held.
- [var kSCStatusNeedLock: Int](kscstatusneedlock.md)
  A lock is required for this operation.
- [var kSCStatusNoStoreSession: Int](kscstatusnostoresession.md)
  The configuration daemon session is not active.
- [var kSCStatusNoStoreServer: Int](kscstatusnostoreserver.md)
  The configuration daemon is not available or no longer available.
- [var kSCStatusNotifierActive: Int](kscstatusnotifieractive.md)
  Notifier is currently active.
- [var kSCStatusNoPrefsSession: Int](kscstatusnoprefssession.md)
  The preferences session is not active.
- [var kSCStatusPrefsBusy: Int](kscstatusprefsbusy.md)
  A preferences update is currently in progress.
- [var kSCStatusNoConfigFile: Int](kscstatusnoconfigfile.md)
  The configuration file cannot be found.
- [var kSCStatusNoLink: Int](kscstatusnolink.md)
  No such link exists.
- [var kSCStatusStale: Int](kscstatusstale.md)
  A write was attempted on a stale version of the object.
- [var kSCStatusMaxLink: Int](kscstatusmaxlink.md)
  The maximum link count is exceeded.
- [var kSCStatusReachabilityUnknown: Int](kscstatusreachabilityunknown.md)
  Network reachability cannot be determined.
- [var kSCStatusConnectionNoService: Int](kscstatusconnectionnoservice.md)
  Network service for the connection is not available.
- [var kSCStatusConnectionIgnore: Int](kscstatusconnectionignore.md)
  Network connection information is not available at this time.

## See Also

- [Error Domain](error-domain.md)
  The error domain associated with errors reported by the System Configuration framework.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/systemconfiguration/1518026-status-and-error-codes)*