# SCNetworkReachability

**Framework**: System Configuration

#### Overview

> ❗ **Important**:  All `SCNetworkReachability` functions are deprecated, because network conditions change too frequently for preflight reachability tests to be accurate and useful. Instead of trying to perform a preflight check, just attempt your connection. The connection may not be available immediately, but you can use [`waitsForConnectivity`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/Foundation/URLSessionConfiguration/waitsForConnectivity) in your [`URLSessionConfiguration`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/Foundation/URLSessionConfiguration) to automatically connect as soon as it’s possible to do so. If you’re using the [`Network`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/Network) framework, you can monitor the state of an [`NWConnection`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/Network/NWConnection) ([`nw_connection_t`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/Network/nw_connection_t) in Objective-C), which lets you know when the connection is waiting for a change in connectivity before automatically proceeding. In limited cases, if you need to change a network request based on the network you’re using, use [`NWPathMonitor`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/Network/NWPathMonitor) to observe the system networking state.

The `SCNetworkReachability` programming interface allows an application to determine the status of a system’s current network configuration and the reachability of a target host. A remote host is considered reachable when a data packet, sent by an application into the network stack, can leave the local device. Reachability doesn’t guarantee that the data packet will actually be received by the host.

The `SCNetworkReachability` programming interface supports a synchronous and an asynchronous model. In the synchronous model, you get the reachability status by calling the [`SCNetworkReachabilityGetFlags(_:_:)`](scnetworkreachabilitygetflags(_:_:).md) function. In the asynchronous model, you can schedule the `SCNetworkReachability` object on the run loop of a client object’s thread. The client implements a callback function to receive notifications when the reachability status of a given remote host changes. Note that these functions follow Core Foundation naming conventions. A function that has “Create” or “Copy” in its name returns a reference you must release with the [`CFRelease`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/corefoundation/1521153-cfrelease) function.

For information about detecting and interpreting errors generated by calling these functions, see [`System Configuration`](system-configuration.md).

## Topics

### Creating a Reachability Reference
- [func SCNetworkReachabilityCreateWithAddress(CFAllocator?, UnsafePointer<sockaddr>) -> SCNetworkReachability?](scnetworkreachabilitycreatewithaddress(_:_:).md)
  Creates a reachability reference to the specified network address.
- [func SCNetworkReachabilityCreateWithAddressPair(CFAllocator?, UnsafePointer<sockaddr>?, UnsafePointer<sockaddr>?) -> SCNetworkReachability?](scnetworkreachabilitycreatewithaddresspair(_:_:_:).md)
  Creates a reachability reference to the specified network address.
- [func SCNetworkReachabilityCreateWithName(CFAllocator?, UnsafePointer<CChar>) -> SCNetworkReachability?](scnetworkreachabilitycreatewithname(_:_:).md)
  Creates a reachability reference to the specified network host or node name.
### Determining Reachability Status
- [func SCNetworkReachabilityGetFlags(SCNetworkReachability, UnsafeMutablePointer<SCNetworkReachabilityFlags>) -> Bool](scnetworkreachabilitygetflags(_:_:).md)
  Determines if the specified network target is reachable using the current network configuration.
### Preparing to Determine Reachability
- [func SCNetworkReachabilityGetTypeID() -> CFTypeID](scnetworkreachabilitygettypeid().md)
  Returns the type identifier of all `SCNetworkReachability` instances.
- [func SCNetworkReachabilitySetCallback(SCNetworkReachability, SCNetworkReachabilityCallBack?, UnsafeMutablePointer<SCNetworkReachabilityContext>?) -> Bool](scnetworkreachabilitysetcallback(_:_:_:).md)
  Assigns a client to the specified target, which receives callbacks when the reachability of the target changes.
- [func SCNetworkReachabilityScheduleWithRunLoop(SCNetworkReachability, CFRunLoop, CFString) -> Bool](scnetworkreachabilityschedulewithrunloop(_:_:_:).md)
  Schedules the specified network target with the specified run loop and mode.
- [func SCNetworkReachabilityUnscheduleFromRunLoop(SCNetworkReachability, CFRunLoop, CFString) -> Bool](scnetworkreachabilityunschedulefromrunloop(_:_:_:).md)
  Unschedules the specified target from the specified run loop and mode.
- [func SCNetworkReachabilitySetDispatchQueue(SCNetworkReachability, dispatch_queue_t?) -> Bool](scnetworkreachabilitysetdispatchqueue(_:_:).md)
  Schedules callbacks for the specified target on the specified dispatch queue.
### Callbacks
- [typealias SCNetworkReachabilityCallBack](scnetworkreachabilitycallback.md)
  Type of callback function used when the reachability of a network address or name changes.
### Data Types
- [class SCNetworkReachability](scnetworkreachability.md)
  The handle to a network address or name.
- [struct SCNetworkReachabilityContext](scnetworkreachabilitycontext.md)
  Structure containing user-specified data and callbacks used with [`SCNetworkReachabilitySetCallback(_:_:_:)`](scnetworkreachabilitysetcallback(_:_:_:).md).
### Constants
- [struct SCNetworkReachabilityFlags](scnetworkreachabilityflags.md)
  Flags that indicate the reachability of a network node name or address, including whether a connection is required, and whether some user intervention might be required when establishing a connection.

## See Also

- [SCDynamicStore](scdynamicstore-gb2.md)
- [SCDynamicStoreCopySpecific](scdynamicstorecopyspecific.md)
- [SCDynamicStoreKey](scdynamicstorekey.md)
- [SCNetwork](scnetwork.md)
- [SCNetworkConfiguration](scnetworkconfiguration.md)
- [SCNetworkConnection](scnetworkconnection-g7e.md)
- [SCPreferences](scpreferences-ft8.md)
- [SCPreferencesPath](scpreferencespath.md)
- [SCPreferencesSetSpecific](scpreferencessetspecific.md)
- [SCSchemaDefinitions](scschemadefinitions.md)
- [System Configuration](system-configuration.md)
- [SystemConfiguration Enumerations](systemconfiguration-enumerations.md)
- [SystemConfiguration Constants](systemconfiguration-constants.md)
- [SystemConfiguration Functions](systemconfiguration-functions.md)
- [SystemConfiguration Data Types](systemconfiguration-data-types.md)


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/systemconfiguration/scnetworkreachability-g7d)*