# operationQueue

**Framework**: Foundation  
**Kind**: property

The queue on which query result notifications are posted.

**Availability**:
- iOS 7.0+
- iPadOS 7.0+
- Mac Catalyst 13.1+
- macOS 10.9+
- tvOS 9.0+
- visionOS 1.0+
- watchOS 2.0+

## Declaration

```swift
var operationQueue: OperationQueue? { get set }
```

#### Discussion

Use this property to decouple the processing of results from the thread used to execute the query. This makes it easier to synchronize query result processing with other related operations—such as updating the data model or user interface—which you might want to perform on the main queue.

## See Also

- [var results: [Any]](nsmetadataquery/results.md)
  An array containing the query’s results.
- [var resultCount: Int](nsmetadataquery/resultcount.md)
  The number of results returned by the query. (read-only)
- [func result(at: Int) -> Any](nsmetadataquery/result(at:).md)
  Returns the query result at a specific index.
- [func index(ofResult: Any) -> Int](nsmetadataquery/index(ofresult:).md)
  Returns the index of a query result object in the receiver’s results array.
- [var groupedResults: [NSMetadataQueryResultGroup]](nsmetadataquery/groupedresults.md)
  An array containing hierarchical groups of query results. (read-only)
- [class NSMetadataQueryResultGroup](nsmetadataqueryresultgroup.md)
  The `NSMetadataQueryResultGroup` class represents a collection of grouped attribute results returned by an [`NSMetadataQuery`](nsmetadataquery.md) object.
- [func enumerateResults((Any, Int, UnsafeMutablePointer<ObjCBool>) -> Void)](nsmetadataquery/enumerateresults(_:).md)
  Enumerates the current set of results using the given block.
- [func enumerateResults(options: NSEnumerationOptions, using: (Any, Int, UnsafeMutablePointer<ObjCBool>) -> Void)](nsmetadataquery/enumerateresults(options:using:).md)
  Enumerates the current set of results using the given options and block.
- [var valueLists: [String : [NSMetadataQueryAttributeValueTuple]]](nsmetadataquery/valuelists.md)
  A dictionary containing the value lists generated by the query.
- [class NSMetadataQueryAttributeValueTuple](nsmetadataqueryattributevaluetuple.md)
  The `NSMetadataQueryAttributeValueTuple` class represents attribute-value tuples, which are objects that contain the attribute name and value of a metadata attribute.
- [func value(ofAttribute: String, forResultAt: Int) -> Any?](nsmetadataquery/value(ofattribute:forresultat:).md)
  Returns the value for the attribute name `attrName` at the index in the results specified by `idx`.
- [func enableUpdates()](nsmetadataquery/enableupdates.md)
  Enables updates to the query results.
- [func disableUpdates()](nsmetadataquery/disableupdates.md)
  Disables updates to the query results.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/nsmetadataquery/operationqueue)*