# result(at:)

**Framework**: Foundation  
**Kind**: method

Returns the query result at a specific index.

**Availability**:
- iOS 5.0+
- iPadOS 5.0+
- Mac Catalyst 13.1+
- macOS 10.4+
- tvOS 9.0+
- visionOS 1.0+
- watchOS 2.0+

## Declaration

```swift
func result(at idx: Int) -> Any
```

#### Return Value

The query result at the position specified by `idx`. By default, this method returns an [`NSMetadataItem`](nsmetadataitem.md) object representing the requested result; however, the query’s delegate can substitute this object with an instance of a different class.

#### Discussion

For performance reasons, use this method when retrieving a specific result, rather than the array returned by [`results`](nsmetadataquery/results.md).

## Parameters

- `idx`: The index of the desired result in the query result array.

## See Also

- [func metadataQuery(NSMetadataQuery, replacementObjectForResultObject: NSMetadataItem) -> Any](nsmetadataquerydelegate/metadataquery(_:replacementobjectforresultobject:).md)
  Returns a different object for a given query result object.
- [var results: [Any]](nsmetadataquery/results.md)
  An array containing the query’s results.
- [var resultCount: Int](nsmetadataquery/resultcount.md)
  The number of results returned by the query. (read-only)
- [func index(ofResult: Any) -> Int](nsmetadataquery/index(ofresult:).md)
  Returns the index of a query result object in the receiver’s results array.
- [var groupedResults: [NSMetadataQueryResultGroup]](nsmetadataquery/groupedresults.md)
  An array containing hierarchical groups of query results. (read-only)
- [class NSMetadataQueryResultGroup](nsmetadataqueryresultgroup.md)
  The `NSMetadataQueryResultGroup` class represents a collection of grouped attribute results returned by an [`NSMetadataQuery`](nsmetadataquery.md) object.
- [func enumerateResults((Any, Int, UnsafeMutablePointer<ObjCBool>) -> Void)](nsmetadataquery/enumerateresults(_:).md)
  Enumerates the current set of results using the given block.
- [func enumerateResults(options: NSEnumerationOptions, using: (Any, Int, UnsafeMutablePointer<ObjCBool>) -> Void)](nsmetadataquery/enumerateresults(options:using:).md)
  Enumerates the current set of results using the given options and block.
- [var valueLists: [String : [NSMetadataQueryAttributeValueTuple]]](nsmetadataquery/valuelists.md)
  A dictionary containing the value lists generated by the query.
- [class NSMetadataQueryAttributeValueTuple](nsmetadataqueryattributevaluetuple.md)
  The `NSMetadataQueryAttributeValueTuple` class represents attribute-value tuples, which are objects that contain the attribute name and value of a metadata attribute.
- [func value(ofAttribute: String, forResultAt: Int) -> Any?](nsmetadataquery/value(ofattribute:forresultat:).md)
  Returns the value for the attribute name `attrName` at the index in the results specified by `idx`.
- [func enableUpdates()](nsmetadataquery/enableupdates.md)
  Enables updates to the query results.
- [func disableUpdates()](nsmetadataquery/disableupdates.md)
  Disables updates to the query results.
- [var operationQueue: OperationQueue?](nsmetadataquery/operationqueue.md)
  The queue on which query result notifications are posted.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/nsmetadataquery/result(at:))*