# results

**Framework**: Foundation  
**Kind**: property

An array containing the query’s results.

**Availability**:
- iOS 5.0+
- iPadOS 5.0+
- Mac Catalyst 13.1+
- macOS 10.4+
- tvOS 9.0+
- visionOS 1.0+
- watchOS 2.0+

## Declaration

```swift
var results: [Any] { get }
```

#### Discussion

The array is a proxy object that is primarily intended for use with Cocoa bindings. While it is possible to copy the proxy array and receive a “snapshot” of the complete current query results, it is generally not recommended due to performance and memory issues. To access individual result array elements, use the [`resultCount`](nsmetadataquery/resultcount.md) and [`result(at:)`](nsmetadataquery/result(at:).md) methods.

The array supports [`Key-value observing`](https://developer.apple.comhttps://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/General/Conceptual/DevPedia-CocoaCore/KVO.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40008195-CH16), which can be used to be notified when items are added, removed, or updated in the array of results.

By default, this array contains [`NSMetadataItem`](nsmetadataitem.md) objects, each of which represents the metadata associated with a file. However, the query’s delegate can substitute these objects with instances of a different class.

> ❗ **Important**:  Accessing this property implicitly disables updates, and enables updates again once the resulting array is deallocated.

## See Also

- [var resultCount: Int](nsmetadataquery/resultcount.md)
  The number of results returned by the query. (read-only)
- [func result(at: Int) -> Any](nsmetadataquery/result(at:).md)
  Returns the query result at a specific index.
- [func index(ofResult: Any) -> Int](nsmetadataquery/index(ofresult:).md)
  Returns the index of a query result object in the receiver’s results array.
- [var groupedResults: [NSMetadataQueryResultGroup]](nsmetadataquery/groupedresults.md)
  An array containing hierarchical groups of query results. (read-only)
- [class NSMetadataQueryResultGroup](nsmetadataqueryresultgroup.md)
  The `NSMetadataQueryResultGroup` class represents a collection of grouped attribute results returned by an [`NSMetadataQuery`](nsmetadataquery.md) object.
- [func enumerateResults((Any, Int, UnsafeMutablePointer<ObjCBool>) -> Void)](nsmetadataquery/enumerateresults(_:).md)
  Enumerates the current set of results using the given block.
- [func enumerateResults(options: NSEnumerationOptions, using: (Any, Int, UnsafeMutablePointer<ObjCBool>) -> Void)](nsmetadataquery/enumerateresults(options:using:).md)
  Enumerates the current set of results using the given options and block.
- [var valueLists: [String : [NSMetadataQueryAttributeValueTuple]]](nsmetadataquery/valuelists.md)
  A dictionary containing the value lists generated by the query.
- [class NSMetadataQueryAttributeValueTuple](nsmetadataqueryattributevaluetuple.md)
  The `NSMetadataQueryAttributeValueTuple` class represents attribute-value tuples, which are objects that contain the attribute name and value of a metadata attribute.
- [func value(ofAttribute: String, forResultAt: Int) -> Any?](nsmetadataquery/value(ofattribute:forresultat:).md)
  Returns the value for the attribute name `attrName` at the index in the results specified by `idx`.
- [func enableUpdates()](nsmetadataquery/enableupdates.md)
  Enables updates to the query results.
- [func disableUpdates()](nsmetadataquery/disableupdates.md)
  Disables updates to the query results.
- [var operationQueue: OperationQueue?](nsmetadataquery/operationqueue.md)
  The queue on which query result notifications are posted.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/nsmetadataquery/results)*