# init(calibratedRGBWhitePoint:blackPoint:gamma:matrix:)

**Framework**: Core Graphics  
**Kind**: init

Creates a calibrated RGB color space.

**Availability**:
- iOS 2.0+
- iPadOS 2.0+
- Mac Catalyst 13.1+
- macOS 10.0+
- tvOS ?+
- visionOS 1.0+
- watchOS 2.0+

## Declaration

```swift
init?(calibratedRGBWhitePoint whitePoint: UnsafePointer<CGFloat>, blackPoint: UnsafePointer<CGFloat>?, gamma: UnsafePointer<CGFloat>?, matrix: UnsafePointer<CGFloat>?)
```

#### Return Value

A new calibrated RGB color space, or `NULL` if unsuccessful. In Objective-C, you’re responsible for releasing this object by calling [`CGColorSpaceRelease`](cgcolorspacerelease.md).

#### Discussion

Creates a device-independent RGB color space that represents colors relative to a reference white point. This white point is based on the whitest light that can be generated by the output device. Colors in a device-independent color space should appear the same when displayed on different devices, to the extent that the capabilities of the device allow.

For color spaces that require a detailed gamma, such as the piecewise transfer function used in sRGB or ITU-R BT.709, you may want to use the function  [`init(iccBasedNComponents:range:profile:alternate:)`](cgcolorspace/init(iccbasedncomponents:range:profile:alternate:).md) instead, because it can accurately represent these gamma curves.

## Parameters

- `whitePoint`: An array of 3 numbers specifying the tristimulus value, in the CIE 1931 XYZ-space, of the diffuse white point.
- `blackPoint`: An array of 3 numbers specifying the tristimulus value, in CIE 1931 XYZ-space, of the diffuse black point.
- `gamma`: An array of 3 numbers specifying the gamma for the red, green, and blue components of the color space.
- `matrix`: An array of 9 numbers specifying the linear interpretation of the gamma-modified RGB values of the color space with respect to the final XYZ representation.

## See Also

- [init?(calibratedGrayWhitePoint: UnsafePointer<CGFloat>, blackPoint: UnsafePointer<CGFloat>?, gamma: CGFloat)](cgcolorspace/init(calibratedgraywhitepoint:blackpoint:gamma:).md)
  Creates a calibrated grayscale color space.
- [init?(iccBasedNComponents: Int, range: UnsafePointer<CGFloat>?, profile: CGDataProvider, alternate: CGColorSpace?)](cgcolorspace/init(iccbasedncomponents:range:profile:alternate:).md)
  Creates a device-independent color space that is defined according to the ICC color profile specification.
- [init?(indexedBaseSpace: CGColorSpace, last: Int, colorTable: UnsafePointer<UInt8>)](cgcolorspace/init(indexedbasespace:last:colortable:).md)
  Creates an indexed color space, consisting of colors specified by a color lookup table.
- [init?(labWhitePoint: UnsafePointer<CGFloat>, blackPoint: UnsafePointer<CGFloat>?, range: UnsafePointer<CGFloat>?)](cgcolorspace/init(labwhitepoint:blackpoint:range:).md)
  Creates a device-independent color space that is relative to human color perception, according to the CIE L*a*b* standard.
- [init?(patternBaseSpace: CGColorSpace?)](cgcolorspace/init(patternbasespace:).md)
  Creates a pattern color space.
- [init?(name: CFString)](cgcolorspace/init(name:).md)
  Creates a specified type of Quartz color space.
- [init?(platformColorSpaceRef: UnsafeRawPointer)](cgcolorspace/init(platformcolorspaceref:).md)
  Creates a platform-specific color space.
- [init?(iccData: CFTypeRef)](cgcolorspace/init(iccdata:).md)
  Creates an ICC-based color space using the ICC profile contained in the specified data.
- [init?(propertyListPlist: CFPropertyList)](cgcolorspace/init(propertylistplist:).md)
  Creates a color space from a property list.
- [func CGColorSpaceCreateDeviceRGB() -> CGColorSpace](cgcolorspacecreatedevicergb().md)
  Creates a device-dependent RGB color space.
- [func CGColorSpaceCreateDeviceCMYK() -> CGColorSpace](cgcolorspacecreatedevicecmyk().md)
  Creates a device-dependent CMYK color space.
- [func CGColorSpaceCreateDeviceGray() -> CGColorSpace](cgcolorspacecreatedevicegray().md)
  Creates a device-dependent grayscale color space.
- [init?(iccProfileData: CFData)](cgcolorspace/init(iccprofiledata:).md)
  Creates an ICC-based color space using the ICC profile contained in the specified data.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/coregraphics/cgcolorspace/init(calibratedrgbwhitepoint:blackpoint:gamma:matrix:))*