# CloudKit.Notification

**Framework**: CloudKit JS  
**Kind**: class

A [`CloudKit.Notification`](cloudkit.notification.md) object represents a push notification that was sent to your app. Notifications are triggered by subscriptions that you save to the database. To subscribe to record changes and handle push notifications, see the `saveSubscription` method in [`CloudKit.Database`](cloudkit.database.md).

**Availability**:
- CloudKit JS 1.0+

## Declaration

```swift
interface CloudKit.Notification
```

#### Overview

This class is similar to the [`CKNotification`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/CloudKit/CKNotification) class in the CloudKit framework.

## Topics

### Getting Identifiers
- [containerIdentifier](cloudkit.notification/containeridentifier.md)
  The identifier of the container that generated this notification.
- [notificationID](cloudkit.notification/notificationid.md)
  A unique identifier for this notification.
- [subscriptionID](cloudkit.notification/subscriptionid.md)
  The identifier for the associated subscription.
- [zoneID](cloudkit.notification/zoneid.md)
  The identifier of the zone that this notification belongs to.
### Getting the Notification Type
- [notificationType](cloudkit.notification/notificationtype.md)
  The type of notification.
- [isQueryNotification](cloudkit.notification/isquerynotification.md)
  A Boolean value indicating whether this push notification is a query notification.
- [isRecordZoneNotification](cloudkit.notification/isrecordzonenotification.md)
  A Boolean value indicating whether this notification is a push notification that was sent because of changes to a record zone.
### Presenting Notifications
- [alertActionLocalizationKey](cloudkit.notification/alertactionlocalizationkey.md)
  A key to get a localized right button title that appears in the alert dialog.
- [alertBody](cloudkit.notification/alertbody.md)
  The text of the alert message.
- [alertLaunchImage](cloudkit.notification/alertlaunchimage.md)
  The filename of an image file in the app bundle used as a launch image.
- [alertLocalizationArgs](cloudkit.notification/alertlocalizationargs.md)
  An array of strings that appear as variables if [`alertLocalizationKey`](cloudkit.notification/alertlocalizationkey.md) is a format specifier.
- [alertLocalizationKey](cloudkit.notification/alertlocalizationkey.md)
  A key to a localized alert message.
- [badge](cloudkit.notification/badge.md)
  The badge number to display.
- [category](cloudkit.notification/category.md)
  Name of the action group corresponding to this notification.
- [soundName](cloudkit.notification/soundname.md)
  The name of a sound file in the app bundle to play as an alert.
### Constants
- [Notification Types](notification-types.md)
  Constants indicating the type of event that generated the push notification.
### Variables
- [QUERY_NOTIFICATION_REASON_RECORD_CREATED](cloudkit.notification/query_notification_reason_record_created.md)
  A record matching the subscription’s predicate was created.
- [QUERY_NOTIFICATION_REASON_RECORD_DELETED](cloudkit.notification/query_notification_reason_record_deleted.md)
  A record matching the subscription’s predicate was deleted.
- [QUERY_NOTIFICATION_REASON_RECORD_UPDATED](cloudkit.notification/query_notification_reason_record_updated.md)
  A record matching the subscription’s predicate was updated.

## Relationships

### Inherits From
- [CloudKit.QueryNotification](cloudkit.querynotification.md)
- [CloudKit.RecordZoneNotification](cloudkit.recordzonenotification.md)

## See Also

- [CloudKit](cloudkit.md)
  Use the `CloudKit` namespace to configure CloudKit JS, and to access app containers and global constants.
- [CloudKit.CKError](cloudkit.ckerror.md)
  A [`CloudKit.CKError`](cloudkit.ckerror.md) object encapsulates an error that may occur when you use CloudKit JS. This includes CloudKit server errors and local errors.
- [CloudKit.Container](cloudkit.container.md)
  A [`CloudKit.Container`](cloudkit.container.md) object provides access to an app container, and through the app container, access to its databases. It also contains methods for authenticating and fetching users.
- [CloudKit.Database](cloudkit.database.md)
  A [`CloudKit.Database`](cloudkit.database.md) object represents a public or private database in an app container.
- [CloudKit.DatabaseChangesResponse](cloudkit.databasechangesresponse.md)
  A [`CloudKit.DatabaseChangesResponse`](cloudkit.databasechangesresponse.md) object encapsulates the results of fetching changed record zones in a database.
- [CloudKit.QueryNotification](cloudkit.querynotification.md)
  A [`CloudKit.QueryNotification`](cloudkit.querynotification.md) object represents a push notification that was generated by a subscription object. A query notification is triggered by subscriptions where the `subscriptionType` key is `query`. Use a [`CloudKit.QueryNotification`](cloudkit.querynotification.md) object to get information about the record that changed. To create query subscriptions and handle push notifications, see the [`saveSubscriptions`](cloudkit.database/savesubscriptions.md) method in [`CloudKit.Database`](cloudkit.database.md).
- [CloudKit.QueryResponse](cloudkit.queryresponse.md)
  A [`CloudKit.QueryResponse`](cloudkit.queryresponse.md) object encapsulates the results of using a query to fetch records
- [CloudKit.RecordInfosResponse](cloudkit.recordinfosresponse.md)
  A [`CloudKit.RecordInfosResponse`](cloudkit.recordinfosresponse.md) object encapsulates the results of fetching information about records in general and shared records in particular.
- [CloudKit.RecordsBatchBuilder](cloudkit.recordsbatchbuilder.md)
  A [`CloudKit.RecordsBatchBuilder`](cloudkit.recordsbatchbuilder.md) object encapsulates the results of changes to multiple records in a single database operation.
- [CloudKit.RecordsResponse](cloudkit.recordsresponse.md)
  A [`CloudKit.RecordsResponse`](cloudkit.recordsresponse.md) object encapsulates the results of fetching records.
- [CloudKit.RecordZoneChangesResponse](cloudkit.recordzonechangesresponse.md)
  The [`CloudKit.RecordZoneChangesResponse`](cloudkit.recordzonechangesresponse.md) object encapsulates the results of fetching changes to one or more record zones.
- [CloudKit.RecordZoneNotification](cloudkit.recordzonenotification.md)
  A [`CloudKit.RecordZoneNotification`](cloudkit.recordzonenotification.md) object represents a push notification that was caused by changes to the contents of a record zone. A zone notification is triggered by subscriptions where the `subscriptionType` key is `zone`. Use a [`CloudKit.RecordZoneNotification`](cloudkit.recordzonenotification.md) object to get information about the record that changed. To create zone subscriptions and handle push notifications, see the [`saveSubscriptions`](cloudkit.database/savesubscriptions.md) method in [`CloudKit.Database`](cloudkit.database.md).
- [CloudKit.RecordZonesResponse](cloudkit.recordzonesresponse.md)
  A [`CloudKit.RecordZonesResponse`](cloudkit.recordzonesresponse.md) object encapsulates the results of database operations on a record zone.
- [CloudKit.Response](cloudkit.response.md)
  The [`CloudKit.Response`](cloudkit.response.md) class is an abstract superclass for subclasses that encapsulate the response from server requests. Don’t create instances of this class. Instances of subclasses are returned by methods in the [`CloudKit.Container`](cloudkit.container.md) and [`CloudKit.Database`](cloudkit.database.md) classes. Most of these methods return a `Promise` object that resolves to a subclass of [`CloudKit.Response`](cloudkit.response.md) if the operation is successful.
- [CloudKit.ShareRecordType](cloudkit.sharerecordtype.md)
  Display information about the record type of a shared record.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/cloudkitjs/cloudkit.notification)*