# CloudKit.QueryNotification

**Framework**: CloudKit JS  
**Kind**: class

A [`CloudKit.QueryNotification`](cloudkit.querynotification.md) object represents a push notification that was generated by a subscription object. A query notification is triggered by subscriptions where the `subscriptionType` key is `query`. Use a [`CloudKit.QueryNotification`](cloudkit.querynotification.md) object to get information about the record that changed. To create query subscriptions and handle push notifications, see the [`saveSubscriptions`](cloudkit.database/savesubscriptions.md) method in [`CloudKit.Database`](cloudkit.database.md).

**Availability**:
- CloudKit JS 1.0+

## Declaration

```swift
interface CloudKit.QueryNotification
```

#### Overview

This class is similar to the [`CKQueryNotification`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/CloudKit/CKQueryNotification) class in the CloudKit framework.

## Topics

### Getting Record Changes
- [queryNotificationReason](cloudkit.querynotification/querynotificationreason.md)
  The reason for the query notification.
- [recordName](cloudkit.querynotification/recordname.md)
  The name of the record that was created, deleted, or updated.
- [recordFields](cloudkit.querynotification/recordfields.md)
  A dictionary representation of the fields that changed in the record.
- [isPublicDatabase](cloudkit.querynotification/ispublicdatabase.md)
  Boolean value indicating whether the notification is from the public database.
### Getting the Notification Type
- [notificationType](cloudkit.querynotification/notificationtype.md)
  The type of notification.
- [isQueryNotification](cloudkit.querynotification/isquerynotification.md)
  Boolean value indicating whether this notification is a [`CloudKit.QueryNotification`](cloudkit.querynotification.md) object.
### Logging
- [toString](cloudkit.querynotification/tostring.md)
  Returns a string representation of the notification.
### Constants
- [Reasons for Query Notifications](reasons-for-query-notifications.md)
  Constants indicating the event that triggered the notification.

## Relationships

### Inherited By
- [CloudKit.Notification](cloudkit.notification.md)

## See Also

- [CloudKit](cloudkit.md)
  Use the `CloudKit` namespace to configure CloudKit JS, and to access app containers and global constants.
- [CloudKit.CKError](cloudkit.ckerror.md)
  A [`CloudKit.CKError`](cloudkit.ckerror.md) object encapsulates an error that may occur when you use CloudKit JS. This includes CloudKit server errors and local errors.
- [CloudKit.Container](cloudkit.container.md)
  A [`CloudKit.Container`](cloudkit.container.md) object provides access to an app container, and through the app container, access to its databases. It also contains methods for authenticating and fetching users.
- [CloudKit.Database](cloudkit.database.md)
  A [`CloudKit.Database`](cloudkit.database.md) object represents a public or private database in an app container.
- [CloudKit.DatabaseChangesResponse](cloudkit.databasechangesresponse.md)
  A [`CloudKit.DatabaseChangesResponse`](cloudkit.databasechangesresponse.md) object encapsulates the results of fetching changed record zones in a database.
- [CloudKit.Notification](cloudkit.notification.md)
  A [`CloudKit.Notification`](cloudkit.notification.md) object represents a push notification that was sent to your app. Notifications are triggered by subscriptions that you save to the database. To subscribe to record changes and handle push notifications, see the `saveSubscription` method in [`CloudKit.Database`](cloudkit.database.md).
- [CloudKit.QueryResponse](cloudkit.queryresponse.md)
  A [`CloudKit.QueryResponse`](cloudkit.queryresponse.md) object encapsulates the results of using a query to fetch records
- [CloudKit.RecordInfosResponse](cloudkit.recordinfosresponse.md)
  A [`CloudKit.RecordInfosResponse`](cloudkit.recordinfosresponse.md) object encapsulates the results of fetching information about records in general and shared records in particular.
- [CloudKit.RecordsBatchBuilder](cloudkit.recordsbatchbuilder.md)
  A [`CloudKit.RecordsBatchBuilder`](cloudkit.recordsbatchbuilder.md) object encapsulates the results of changes to multiple records in a single database operation.
- [CloudKit.RecordsResponse](cloudkit.recordsresponse.md)
  A [`CloudKit.RecordsResponse`](cloudkit.recordsresponse.md) object encapsulates the results of fetching records.
- [CloudKit.RecordZoneChangesResponse](cloudkit.recordzonechangesresponse.md)
  The [`CloudKit.RecordZoneChangesResponse`](cloudkit.recordzonechangesresponse.md) object encapsulates the results of fetching changes to one or more record zones.
- [CloudKit.RecordZoneNotification](cloudkit.recordzonenotification.md)
  A [`CloudKit.RecordZoneNotification`](cloudkit.recordzonenotification.md) object represents a push notification that was caused by changes to the contents of a record zone. A zone notification is triggered by subscriptions where the `subscriptionType` key is `zone`. Use a [`CloudKit.RecordZoneNotification`](cloudkit.recordzonenotification.md) object to get information about the record that changed. To create zone subscriptions and handle push notifications, see the [`saveSubscriptions`](cloudkit.database/savesubscriptions.md) method in [`CloudKit.Database`](cloudkit.database.md).
- [CloudKit.RecordZonesResponse](cloudkit.recordzonesresponse.md)
  A [`CloudKit.RecordZonesResponse`](cloudkit.recordzonesresponse.md) object encapsulates the results of database operations on a record zone.
- [CloudKit.Response](cloudkit.response.md)
  The [`CloudKit.Response`](cloudkit.response.md) class is an abstract superclass for subclasses that encapsulate the response from server requests. Don’t create instances of this class. Instances of subclasses are returned by methods in the [`CloudKit.Container`](cloudkit.container.md) and [`CloudKit.Database`](cloudkit.database.md) classes. Most of these methods return a `Promise` object that resolves to a subclass of [`CloudKit.Response`](cloudkit.response.md) if the operation is successful.
- [CloudKit.ShareRecordType](cloudkit.sharerecordtype.md)
  Display information about the record type of a shared record.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/cloudkitjs/cloudkit.querynotification)*