# CloudKit.RecordsResponse

**Framework**: CloudKit JS  
**Kind**: class

A [`CloudKit.RecordsResponse`](cloudkit.recordsresponse.md) object encapsulates the results of fetching records.

**Availability**:
- CloudKit JS 1.0+

## Declaration

```swift
interface CloudKit.RecordsResponse
```

#### Overview

The methods in the [`CloudKit.Database`](cloudkit.database.md) class that operate on records and the [`commit`](cloudkit.recordsbatchbuilder/commit.md) method in the [`CloudKit.RecordsBatchBuilder`](cloudkit.recordsbatchbuilder.md) class return a `Promise` object that resolves to a [`CloudKit.RecordsResponse`](cloudkit.recordsresponse.md) object if the operation is successful. You should not create instances of this class directly.

Errors can occur for individual operations although the overall method may succeed. If an individual operation is successful, a corresponding [`CloudKit.Record`](cloudkit.record.md) dictionary appears in the [`records`](cloudkit.recordsresponse/records.md) array. If an individual operation is unsuccessful, a corresponding [`CKError`](cloudkit/ckerror.md) appears in the errors array.

For examples using the [`CloudKit.Database`](cloudkit.database.md) methods that resolve to a [`CloudKit.RecordsResponse`](cloudkit.recordsresponse.md) object, see the `saveRecord` and `fetchRecord` methods in [`CloudKit.Database`](cloudkit.database.md).

## Topics

### Getting Records
- [records](cloudkit.recordsresponse/records.md)
  The records for the successful operations.
- [numbersAsStrings](cloudkit.recordsresponse/numbersasstrings.md)
  A Boolean value indicating whether the numbers in fields are represented as strings.
### Identifying the Class
- [isRecordsResponse](cloudkit.recordsresponse/isrecordsresponse.md)
  A Boolean value indicating whether this object is an instance of the [`CloudKit.RecordsResponse`](cloudkit.recordsresponse.md) class.
### Logging
- [toString](cloudkit.recordsresponse/tostring.md)
  Returns a string representation of this [`CloudKit.RecordsResponse`](cloudkit.recordsresponse.md) object.

## Relationships

### Inherits From
- [CloudKit.QueryResponse](cloudkit.queryresponse.md)
### Inherited By
- [CloudKit.Response](cloudkit.response.md)

## See Also

- [CloudKit](cloudkit.md)
  Use the `CloudKit` namespace to configure CloudKit JS, and to access app containers and global constants.
- [CloudKit.CKError](cloudkit.ckerror.md)
  A [`CloudKit.CKError`](cloudkit.ckerror.md) object encapsulates an error that may occur when you use CloudKit JS. This includes CloudKit server errors and local errors.
- [CloudKit.Container](cloudkit.container.md)
  A [`CloudKit.Container`](cloudkit.container.md) object provides access to an app container, and through the app container, access to its databases. It also contains methods for authenticating and fetching users.
- [CloudKit.Database](cloudkit.database.md)
  A [`CloudKit.Database`](cloudkit.database.md) object represents a public or private database in an app container.
- [CloudKit.DatabaseChangesResponse](cloudkit.databasechangesresponse.md)
  A [`CloudKit.DatabaseChangesResponse`](cloudkit.databasechangesresponse.md) object encapsulates the results of fetching changed record zones in a database.
- [CloudKit.Notification](cloudkit.notification.md)
  A [`CloudKit.Notification`](cloudkit.notification.md) object represents a push notification that was sent to your app. Notifications are triggered by subscriptions that you save to the database. To subscribe to record changes and handle push notifications, see the `saveSubscription` method in [`CloudKit.Database`](cloudkit.database.md).
- [CloudKit.QueryNotification](cloudkit.querynotification.md)
  A [`CloudKit.QueryNotification`](cloudkit.querynotification.md) object represents a push notification that was generated by a subscription object. A query notification is triggered by subscriptions where the `subscriptionType` key is `query`. Use a [`CloudKit.QueryNotification`](cloudkit.querynotification.md) object to get information about the record that changed. To create query subscriptions and handle push notifications, see the [`saveSubscriptions`](cloudkit.database/savesubscriptions.md) method in [`CloudKit.Database`](cloudkit.database.md).
- [CloudKit.QueryResponse](cloudkit.queryresponse.md)
  A [`CloudKit.QueryResponse`](cloudkit.queryresponse.md) object encapsulates the results of using a query to fetch records
- [CloudKit.RecordInfosResponse](cloudkit.recordinfosresponse.md)
  A [`CloudKit.RecordInfosResponse`](cloudkit.recordinfosresponse.md) object encapsulates the results of fetching information about records in general and shared records in particular.
- [CloudKit.RecordsBatchBuilder](cloudkit.recordsbatchbuilder.md)
  A [`CloudKit.RecordsBatchBuilder`](cloudkit.recordsbatchbuilder.md) object encapsulates the results of changes to multiple records in a single database operation.
- [CloudKit.RecordZoneChangesResponse](cloudkit.recordzonechangesresponse.md)
  The [`CloudKit.RecordZoneChangesResponse`](cloudkit.recordzonechangesresponse.md) object encapsulates the results of fetching changes to one or more record zones.
- [CloudKit.RecordZoneNotification](cloudkit.recordzonenotification.md)
  A [`CloudKit.RecordZoneNotification`](cloudkit.recordzonenotification.md) object represents a push notification that was caused by changes to the contents of a record zone. A zone notification is triggered by subscriptions where the `subscriptionType` key is `zone`. Use a [`CloudKit.RecordZoneNotification`](cloudkit.recordzonenotification.md) object to get information about the record that changed. To create zone subscriptions and handle push notifications, see the [`saveSubscriptions`](cloudkit.database/savesubscriptions.md) method in [`CloudKit.Database`](cloudkit.database.md).
- [CloudKit.RecordZonesResponse](cloudkit.recordzonesresponse.md)
  A [`CloudKit.RecordZonesResponse`](cloudkit.recordzonesresponse.md) object encapsulates the results of database operations on a record zone.
- [CloudKit.Response](cloudkit.response.md)
  The [`CloudKit.Response`](cloudkit.response.md) class is an abstract superclass for subclasses that encapsulate the response from server requests. Don’t create instances of this class. Instances of subclasses are returned by methods in the [`CloudKit.Container`](cloudkit.container.md) and [`CloudKit.Database`](cloudkit.database.md) classes. Most of these methods return a `Promise` object that resolves to a subclass of [`CloudKit.Response`](cloudkit.response.md) if the operation is successful.
- [CloudKit.ShareRecordType](cloudkit.sharerecordtype.md)
  Display information about the record type of a shared record.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/cloudkitjs/cloudkit.recordsresponse)*