# CloudKit.RecordsBatchBuilder

**Framework**: CloudKit JS  
**Kind**: class

A [`CloudKit.RecordsBatchBuilder`](cloudkit.recordsbatchbuilder.md) object encapsulates the results of changes to multiple records in a single database operation.

**Availability**:
- CloudKit JS 1.0+

## Declaration

```swift
interface CloudKit.RecordsBatchBuilder
```

#### Overview

It is more efficient to use this class to batch multiple record changes into a single operation than to use the individual record change methods in the [`CloudKit.Database`](cloudkit.database.md) class. Using this class is especially important if the record types contain `Reference` fields. CloudKit ensures that in a graph of related records, target records are saved before source records.

You should not create instances of this class directly. Instead use the [`newRecordsBatch`](cloudkit.database/newrecordsbatch.md) method in the [`CloudKit.Database`](cloudkit.database.md) class to get a [`CloudKit.RecordsBatchBuilder`](cloudkit.recordsbatchbuilder.md) object. Then use the create, replace, and delete methods in this class to build the batch operation. Use the [`commit`](cloudkit.recordsbatchbuilder/commit.md) method to execute the batch operation.

For convenience, most methods in this class that add operations return the [`CloudKit.RecordsBatchBuilder`](cloudkit.recordsbatchbuilder.md) object so that you can chain method calls together; for example:

```javascript
myDatabase.newRecordsBatch()
    .create(someRecord)
    .update(someOtherRecord)
    .delete(aThirdRecord)
    .commit()
```

For similar web service operations, read [`Modifying Records (records/modify)`](https://developer.apple.comhttps://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/DataManagement/Conceptual/CloudKitWebServicesReference/ModifyRecords.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40015240-CH2) in [`CloudKit Web Services Reference`](https://developer.apple.comhttps://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/DataManagement/Conceptual/CloudKitWebServicesReference/index.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40015240).

## Topics

### Creating and Updating Records
- [create](cloudkit.recordsbatchbuilder/create.md)
  Creates one or more records.
- [createOrUpdate](cloudkit.recordsbatchbuilder/createorupdate.md)
  Creates or updates one or more records depending on the information provided.
- [update](cloudkit.recordsbatchbuilder/update.md)
  Updates one or more existing records.
- [forceUpdate](cloudkit.recordsbatchbuilder/forceupdate.md)
  Updates one or more existing records regardless of conflicts.
### Replacing Records
- [replace](cloudkit.recordsbatchbuilder/replace.md)
  Replaces one or more records with the specified records.
- [forceReplace](cloudkit.recordsbatchbuilder/forcereplace.md)
  Replaces one or more records with the specified records regardless of conflicts.
### Deleting Records
- [delete](cloudkit.recordsbatchbuilder/delete.md)
  Deletes one or more records.
- [forceDelete](cloudkit.recordsbatchbuilder/forcedelete.md)
  Deletes one or more records regardless of conflicts.
### Executing Operations
- [commit](cloudkit.recordsbatchbuilder/commit.md)
  Executes the operations on the database that created this batch builder object.

## See Also

- [CloudKit](cloudkit.md)
  Use the `CloudKit` namespace to configure CloudKit JS, and to access app containers and global constants.
- [CloudKit.CKError](cloudkit.ckerror.md)
  A [`CloudKit.CKError`](cloudkit.ckerror.md) object encapsulates an error that may occur when you use CloudKit JS. This includes CloudKit server errors and local errors.
- [CloudKit.Container](cloudkit.container.md)
  A [`CloudKit.Container`](cloudkit.container.md) object provides access to an app container, and through the app container, access to its databases. It also contains methods for authenticating and fetching users.
- [CloudKit.Database](cloudkit.database.md)
  A [`CloudKit.Database`](cloudkit.database.md) object represents a public or private database in an app container.
- [CloudKit.DatabaseChangesResponse](cloudkit.databasechangesresponse.md)
  A [`CloudKit.DatabaseChangesResponse`](cloudkit.databasechangesresponse.md) object encapsulates the results of fetching changed record zones in a database.
- [CloudKit.Notification](cloudkit.notification.md)
  A [`CloudKit.Notification`](cloudkit.notification.md) object represents a push notification that was sent to your app. Notifications are triggered by subscriptions that you save to the database. To subscribe to record changes and handle push notifications, see the `saveSubscription` method in [`CloudKit.Database`](cloudkit.database.md).
- [CloudKit.QueryNotification](cloudkit.querynotification.md)
  A [`CloudKit.QueryNotification`](cloudkit.querynotification.md) object represents a push notification that was generated by a subscription object. A query notification is triggered by subscriptions where the `subscriptionType` key is `query`. Use a [`CloudKit.QueryNotification`](cloudkit.querynotification.md) object to get information about the record that changed. To create query subscriptions and handle push notifications, see the [`saveSubscriptions`](cloudkit.database/savesubscriptions.md) method in [`CloudKit.Database`](cloudkit.database.md).
- [CloudKit.QueryResponse](cloudkit.queryresponse.md)
  A [`CloudKit.QueryResponse`](cloudkit.queryresponse.md) object encapsulates the results of using a query to fetch records
- [CloudKit.RecordInfosResponse](cloudkit.recordinfosresponse.md)
  A [`CloudKit.RecordInfosResponse`](cloudkit.recordinfosresponse.md) object encapsulates the results of fetching information about records in general and shared records in particular.
- [CloudKit.RecordsResponse](cloudkit.recordsresponse.md)
  A [`CloudKit.RecordsResponse`](cloudkit.recordsresponse.md) object encapsulates the results of fetching records.
- [CloudKit.RecordZoneChangesResponse](cloudkit.recordzonechangesresponse.md)
  The [`CloudKit.RecordZoneChangesResponse`](cloudkit.recordzonechangesresponse.md) object encapsulates the results of fetching changes to one or more record zones.
- [CloudKit.RecordZoneNotification](cloudkit.recordzonenotification.md)
  A [`CloudKit.RecordZoneNotification`](cloudkit.recordzonenotification.md) object represents a push notification that was caused by changes to the contents of a record zone. A zone notification is triggered by subscriptions where the `subscriptionType` key is `zone`. Use a [`CloudKit.RecordZoneNotification`](cloudkit.recordzonenotification.md) object to get information about the record that changed. To create zone subscriptions and handle push notifications, see the [`saveSubscriptions`](cloudkit.database/savesubscriptions.md) method in [`CloudKit.Database`](cloudkit.database.md).
- [CloudKit.RecordZonesResponse](cloudkit.recordzonesresponse.md)
  A [`CloudKit.RecordZonesResponse`](cloudkit.recordzonesresponse.md) object encapsulates the results of database operations on a record zone.
- [CloudKit.Response](cloudkit.response.md)
  The [`CloudKit.Response`](cloudkit.response.md) class is an abstract superclass for subclasses that encapsulate the response from server requests. Don’t create instances of this class. Instances of subclasses are returned by methods in the [`CloudKit.Container`](cloudkit.container.md) and [`CloudKit.Database`](cloudkit.database.md) classes. Most of these methods return a `Promise` object that resolves to a subclass of [`CloudKit.Response`](cloudkit.response.md) if the operation is successful.
- [CloudKit.ShareRecordType](cloudkit.sharerecordtype.md)
  Display information about the record type of a shared record.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/cloudkitjs/cloudkit.recordsbatchbuilder)*