# CloudKit.QueryResponse

**Framework**: CloudKit JS  
**Kind**: class

A [`CloudKit.QueryResponse`](cloudkit.queryresponse.md) object encapsulates the results of using a query to fetch records

**Availability**:
- CloudKit JS 1.0+

## Declaration

```swift
interface CloudKit.QueryResponse
```

#### Overview

The [`performQuery`](cloudkit.database/performquery.md) method in the [`CloudKit.Database`](cloudkit.database.md) class returns a `Promise` object that resolves to a [`CloudKit.QueryResponse`](cloudkit.queryresponse.md) object. You should not create instances of this class directly.

If the criteria matches more records than are returned by the server, the [`continuationMarker`](cloudkit.queryresponse/continuationmarker.md) property is non-`null`, or the [`moreComing`](cloudkit.queryresponse/morecoming.md) property is `true`. To fetch the rest of the matching records, pass the [`CloudKit.QueryResponse`](cloudkit.queryresponse.md) object to another [`performQuery`](cloudkit.database/performquery.md) call until the [`continuationMarker`](cloudkit.queryresponse/continuationmarker.md) property is `null` or the [`moreComing`](cloudkit.queryresponse/morecoming.md) property is `false`.

For an example use of this class, see the [`performQuery`](cloudkit.database/performquery.md) method in [`CloudKit.Database`](cloudkit.database.md).

## Topics

### Accessing Request Properties
- [zoneID](cloudkit.queryresponse/zoneid.md)
  A [`CloudKit.ZoneID`](cloudkit.zoneid.md) dictionary that identifies a record zone in the database.
- [resultsLimit](cloudkit.queryresponse/resultslimit.md)
  The maximum number of records to fetch.
- [continuationMarker](cloudkit.queryresponse/continuationmarker.md)
  Marks the location of the last batch of results.
- [desiredKeys](cloudkit.queryresponse/desiredkeys.md)
  An array of strings containing record field names that limits the amount of data returned in this operation.
- [zoneWide](cloudkit.queryresponse/zonewide.md)
  A Boolean value that determines whether all zones should be searched.
### Accessing Response Properties
- [moreComing](cloudkit.queryresponse/morecoming.md)
  A Boolean value that indicates whether there are more records to fetch.
- [query](cloudkit.queryresponse/query.md)
  A [`CloudKit.Query`](cloudkit.query.md) dictionary containing the criteria for matching records in the database.
### Identifying the Class
- [isQueryResponse](cloudkit.queryresponse/isqueryresponse.md)
  A Boolean value indicating whether this object is an instance of the [`CloudKit.QueryResponse`](cloudkit.queryresponse.md) class.
### Logging
- [toString](cloudkit.queryresponse/tostring.md)
  Returns a string representation of this [`CloudKit.QueryResponse`](cloudkit.queryresponse.md) object.

## Relationships

### Inherited By
- [CloudKit.RecordsResponse](cloudkit.recordsresponse.md)

## See Also

- [CloudKit](cloudkit.md)
  Use the `CloudKit` namespace to configure CloudKit JS, and to access app containers and global constants.
- [CloudKit.CKError](cloudkit.ckerror.md)
  A [`CloudKit.CKError`](cloudkit.ckerror.md) object encapsulates an error that may occur when you use CloudKit JS. This includes CloudKit server errors and local errors.
- [CloudKit.Container](cloudkit.container.md)
  A [`CloudKit.Container`](cloudkit.container.md) object provides access to an app container, and through the app container, access to its databases. It also contains methods for authenticating and fetching users.
- [CloudKit.Database](cloudkit.database.md)
  A [`CloudKit.Database`](cloudkit.database.md) object represents a public or private database in an app container.
- [CloudKit.DatabaseChangesResponse](cloudkit.databasechangesresponse.md)
  A [`CloudKit.DatabaseChangesResponse`](cloudkit.databasechangesresponse.md) object encapsulates the results of fetching changed record zones in a database.
- [CloudKit.Notification](cloudkit.notification.md)
  A [`CloudKit.Notification`](cloudkit.notification.md) object represents a push notification that was sent to your app. Notifications are triggered by subscriptions that you save to the database. To subscribe to record changes and handle push notifications, see the `saveSubscription` method in [`CloudKit.Database`](cloudkit.database.md).
- [CloudKit.QueryNotification](cloudkit.querynotification.md)
  A [`CloudKit.QueryNotification`](cloudkit.querynotification.md) object represents a push notification that was generated by a subscription object. A query notification is triggered by subscriptions where the `subscriptionType` key is `query`. Use a [`CloudKit.QueryNotification`](cloudkit.querynotification.md) object to get information about the record that changed. To create query subscriptions and handle push notifications, see the [`saveSubscriptions`](cloudkit.database/savesubscriptions.md) method in [`CloudKit.Database`](cloudkit.database.md).
- [CloudKit.RecordInfosResponse](cloudkit.recordinfosresponse.md)
  A [`CloudKit.RecordInfosResponse`](cloudkit.recordinfosresponse.md) object encapsulates the results of fetching information about records in general and shared records in particular.
- [CloudKit.RecordsBatchBuilder](cloudkit.recordsbatchbuilder.md)
  A [`CloudKit.RecordsBatchBuilder`](cloudkit.recordsbatchbuilder.md) object encapsulates the results of changes to multiple records in a single database operation.
- [CloudKit.RecordsResponse](cloudkit.recordsresponse.md)
  A [`CloudKit.RecordsResponse`](cloudkit.recordsresponse.md) object encapsulates the results of fetching records.
- [CloudKit.RecordZoneChangesResponse](cloudkit.recordzonechangesresponse.md)
  The [`CloudKit.RecordZoneChangesResponse`](cloudkit.recordzonechangesresponse.md) object encapsulates the results of fetching changes to one or more record zones.
- [CloudKit.RecordZoneNotification](cloudkit.recordzonenotification.md)
  A [`CloudKit.RecordZoneNotification`](cloudkit.recordzonenotification.md) object represents a push notification that was caused by changes to the contents of a record zone. A zone notification is triggered by subscriptions where the `subscriptionType` key is `zone`. Use a [`CloudKit.RecordZoneNotification`](cloudkit.recordzonenotification.md) object to get information about the record that changed. To create zone subscriptions and handle push notifications, see the [`saveSubscriptions`](cloudkit.database/savesubscriptions.md) method in [`CloudKit.Database`](cloudkit.database.md).
- [CloudKit.RecordZonesResponse](cloudkit.recordzonesresponse.md)
  A [`CloudKit.RecordZonesResponse`](cloudkit.recordzonesresponse.md) object encapsulates the results of database operations on a record zone.
- [CloudKit.Response](cloudkit.response.md)
  The [`CloudKit.Response`](cloudkit.response.md) class is an abstract superclass for subclasses that encapsulate the response from server requests. Don’t create instances of this class. Instances of subclasses are returned by methods in the [`CloudKit.Container`](cloudkit.container.md) and [`CloudKit.Database`](cloudkit.database.md) classes. Most of these methods return a `Promise` object that resolves to a subclass of [`CloudKit.Response`](cloudkit.response.md) if the operation is successful.
- [CloudKit.ShareRecordType](cloudkit.sharerecordtype.md)
  Display information about the record type of a shared record.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/cloudkitjs/cloudkit.queryresponse)*