# applyTopK(k:input:bestValues:bestIndices:axis:batchSize:filterParameters:)

**Framework**: Accelerate  
**Kind**: method

Applies a top-k filter directly to an input.

**Availability**:
- iOS 14.0+
- iPadOS 14.0+
- Mac Catalyst ?+
- macOS 11.0+
- tvOS 14.0+
- visionOS ?+
- watchOS 7.0+

## Declaration

```swift
static func applyTopK(k: Int, input: BNNSNDArrayDescriptor, bestValues: BNNSNDArrayDescriptor, bestIndices: BNNSNDArrayDescriptor, axis: Int, batchSize: Int, filterParameters: BNNSFilterParameters? = nil) throws
```

#### Discussion

> ❗ **Important**:  The input data type and best values data type must be `float`, and the best indices data type must be `int32`.

 The input data type and best values data type must be `float`, and the best indices data type must be `int32`.

## Parameters

- `k`: The number of entries the operation finds.
- `input`: The descriptor of the input.
- `bestValues`: The descriptor of the k best values generated by the operation.
- `bestIndices`: The descriptor of the indices of the k best values generated by the operation.
- `axis`: The axis along which the operation finds top-k entries.
- `batchSize`: The number of input-output pairs to process.
- `filterParameters`: The filter runtime parameters.

## See Also

- [func BNNSDirectApplyTopK(Int, Int, Int, UnsafePointer<BNNSNDArrayDescriptor>, Int, UnsafeMutablePointer<BNNSNDArrayDescriptor>, Int, UnsafeMutablePointer<BNNSNDArrayDescriptor>?, Int, UnsafePointer<BNNSFilterParameters>?) -> Int32](bnnsdirectapplytopk(_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:).md)
  Applies a top-k filter directly to an input.
- [static func applyInTopK(k: Int, input: BNNSNDArrayDescriptor, testIndices: BNNSNDArrayDescriptor, output: BNNSNDArrayDescriptor, axis: Int, batchSize: Int, filterParameters: BNNSFilterParameters?) throws](bnns/applyintopk(k:input:testindices:output:axis:batchsize:filterparameters:).md)
  Applies an in-top-k filter directly to an input.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/accelerate/bnns/applytopk(k:input:bestvalues:bestindices:axis:batchsize:filterparameters:))*