# MLFeatureProvider

**Framework**: Core ML  
**Kind**: protocol

An interface that represents a collection of values for either a model’s input or its output.

**Availability**:
- iOS 11.0+
- iPadOS 11.0+
- Mac Catalyst 13.1+
- macOS 10.13+
- tvOS 11.0+
- visionOS 1.0+
- watchOS 4.0+

## Declaration

```swift
protocol MLFeatureProvider
```

#### Overview

Use `MLFeatureProvider` to customize the way your app gets data to and from your model when the model’s dynamically generated interface doesn’t meet your app’s needs.

Consider adopting this protocol in your data source if any of the following apply:

- Your data is collected asynchronously.
- Using the autogenerated interface leads to copying excessive amounts of data.
- Your data source is otherwise complicated.

The interface is mainly an accessor for [`MLFeatureValue`](mlfeaturevalue.md) instances, making it straightforward to implement. Adopting this protocol allows you to integrate your data directly with [`MLModel`](mlmodel.md), which means the model can query your data sources without constructing a separate input instance.

To customize your app’s interaction with a model:

1. Adopt the `MLFeatureProvider` protocol in a class or structure so that the model can query it for input feature values via [`featureValue(for:)`](mlfeatureprovider/featurevalue(for:).md).
2. Pass your app’s `MLFeatureProvider` to your `MLModel` with [`prediction(from:)`](mlmodel/prediction(from:)-9y2aa.md) or [`prediction(from:options:)`](mlmodel/prediction(from:options:)-81mr6.md).
3. Use the `MLFeatureProvider` returned from a `prediction(from:)` method to get the output feature values for that prediction.

## Topics

### Accessing values
- [func featureValue(for: String) -> MLFeatureValue?](mlfeatureprovider/featurevalue(for:).md)
  Accesses the feature value given the feature’s name.
- [var featureNames: Set<String>](mlfeatureprovider/featurenames.md)
  The set of valid feature names.

## Relationships

### Conforming Types
- [MLDictionaryFeatureProvider](mldictionaryfeatureprovider.md)

## See Also

- [Making Predictions with a Sequence of Inputs](making-predictions-with-a-sequence-of-inputs.md)
  Integrate a recurrent neural network model to process sequences of inputs.
- [class MLFeatureValue](mlfeaturevalue.md)
  A generic wrapper around an underlying value and the value’s type.
- [struct MLSendableFeatureValue](mlsendablefeaturevalue.md)
  A sendable feature value.
- [class MLDictionaryFeatureProvider](mldictionaryfeatureprovider.md)
  A convenience wrapper for the given dictionary of data.
- [protocol MLBatchProvider](mlbatchprovider.md)
  An interface that represents a collection of feature providers.
- [class MLArrayBatchProvider](mlarraybatchprovider.md)
  A convenience wrapper for batches of feature providers.
- [class MLModelAsset](mlmodelasset.md)
  An abstraction of a compiled Core ML model asset.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/coreml/mlfeatureprovider)*