# init(eaglContext:)

**Framework**: Core Image  
**Kind**: instctr

Creates a Core Image context from an EAGL context.

**Availability**:
- iOS 5.0+ - Deprecated in 12.0
- iPadOS 5.0+ - Deprecated in 12.0
- tvOS 9.0+ - Deprecated in 12.0

## Declaration

```swift
init(eaglContext: EAGLContext)
```

#### Return_value

A Core Image context that targets OpenGL ES.

#### Discussion

The OpenGL ES context must support OpenGL ES 2.0. All drawing performed using the methods listed in [`Drawing Images`](cicontext#1682591.md) is rendered directly into the context.

## Parameters

- `eaglContext`: The EAGL context to render to.

## See Also

- [init(cglContext: CGLContextObj, pixelFormat: CGLPixelFormatObj?, colorSpace: CGColorSpace?, options: [CIContextOption : Any]?)](cicontext/1438137-init.md)
  Creates a Core Image context from a CGL context, using the specified options, color space, and pixel format object.
- [init(eaglContext: EAGLContext, options: [CIContextOption : Any]?)](cicontext/1620362-init.md)
  Creates a Core Image context from an EAGL context using the specified options.
- [init?(forOfflineGPUAt: UInt32)](cicontext/1437772-init.md)
  Creates an OpenGL-based Core Image context using a GPU that is not currently driving a display.
- [init?(forOfflineGPUAt: UInt32, colorSpace: CGColorSpace?, options: [CIContextOption : Any]?, sharedContext: CGLContextObj?)](cicontext/1437758-init.md)
  Creates an OpenGL-based Core Image context using a GPU that is not currently driving a display, with the specified options.
- [func createCGLayer(with: CGSize, info: CFDictionary?) -> CGLayer?](cicontext/1438267-createcglayer.md)
  Creates a CGLayer object from the provided parameters.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/coreimage/cicontext/1620419-init)*