# init(forOfflineGPUAt:colorSpace:options:sharedContext:)

**Framework**: Core Image  
**Kind**: instctr

Creates an OpenGL-based Core Image context using a GPU that is not currently driving a display, with the specified options.

**Availability**:
- macOS 10.10+ - Deprecated in 10.14

## Declaration

```swift
init?(forOfflineGPUAt index: UInt32, colorSpace: CGColorSpace?, options: [CIContextOption : Any]? = nil, sharedContext: CGLContextObj?)
```

#### Return_value

A Core Image context.

#### Discussion

GPU devices that are not currently being used to drive a display can be used for Core Image rendering. Use the [`offlineGPUCount()`](cicontext/1437817-offlinegpucount.md) method to determine whether any such GPUs are available.

To create a Metal-based Core Image context using an offline GPU, use the [`MTLCopyAllDevices()`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/metal/mtlcopyalldevices()) function to list Metal devices, then choose a device without a display to pass to the [`init(mtlDevice:)`](cicontext/1437609-init.md) method.

## Parameters

- `index`: The index of the offline GPU with which to create the context; a number between zero and the value returned by the   method.
- `colorSpace`: A color space object encapsulating color space information that is used to specify how color values are interpreted.
- `options`: A dictionary that contains options for creating a   object. You can pass any of the keys defined in   along with the appropriate value.
- `sharedContext`: A CGL context with which to share OpenGL resources, obtained by calling the CGL function  . Pass   to use a context that does not share OpenGL resources.

## See Also

- [init(cglContext: CGLContextObj, pixelFormat: CGLPixelFormatObj?, colorSpace: CGColorSpace?, options: [CIContextOption : Any]?)](cicontext/1438137-init.md)
  Creates a Core Image context from a CGL context, using the specified options, color space, and pixel format object.
- [init(eaglContext: EAGLContext)](cicontext/1620419-init.md)
  Creates a Core Image context from an EAGL context.
- [init(eaglContext: EAGLContext, options: [CIContextOption : Any]?)](cicontext/1620362-init.md)
  Creates a Core Image context from an EAGL context using the specified options.
- [init?(forOfflineGPUAt: UInt32)](cicontext/1437772-init.md)
  Creates an OpenGL-based Core Image context using a GPU that is not currently driving a display.
- [func createCGLayer(with: CGSize, info: CFDictionary?) -> CGLayer?](cicontext/1438267-createcglayer.md)
  Creates a CGLayer object from the provided parameters.


---

*[View on Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/coreimage/cicontext/1437758-init)*